post: Khi tôi còn nhỏ , Tôi nghĩ rằng BắcTriều Tiên là đất nước tốt nhất trên thế giới và tôi thường hát bài &quot; Chúng ta chẳng có gì phải ghen tị . &quot;
response: When I was little , I thought my country was the best on the planet , and I grew up singing a song called &quot; Nothing To Envy . &quot;
infer: When I was a young one , I thought UNK was the best country in the world , and I often sing &quot; We have nothing to envy . &quot; 
beam: When I was a young one , I thought UNK was the best country in the world , and I often sing &quot; We have nothing to envy . &quot; 

post: Tôi đã rất tự hào về đất nước tôi .
response: And I was very proud .
infer: I was very proud of my country . 
beam: I was very proud of my country . 

post: Ở trường , chúng tôi dành rất nhiều thời gian để học về cuộc đời của chủ tịch Kim II- Sung , nhưng lại không học nhiều về thế giới bên ngoài , ngoại trừ việc Hoa Kỳ , Hàn Quốc và Nhật Bản là kẻ thù của chúng tôi .
response: In school , we spent a lot of time studying the history of Kim Il-Sung , but we never learned much about the outside world , except that America , South Korea , Japan are the enemies .
infer: In school , we spend a lot of time studying the UNK of UNK UNK UNK UNK , but not so much about the outside world , except for America , Korea and Japan as our enemies . 
beam: In school , we spend a lot of time studying the UNK of UNK UNK UNK UNK , but not so much about the outside world , except for America , Korea and Japan as our enemies . 

post: Mặc dù tôi đã từng tự hỏi không biết thế giới bên ngoài kia như thế nào , nhưng tôi vẫn nghĩ rằng mình sẽ sống cả cuộc đời ở BắcTriều Tiên , cho tới khi tất cả mọi thứ đột nhiên thay đổi .
response: Although I often wondered about the outside world , I thought I would spend my entire life in North Korea , until everything suddenly changed .
infer: Even though I &apos;ve been wondering what the world is out there , but I still think I &apos;m going to live all the way in UNK , until all things have changed . 
beam: Even though I &apos;ve been wondering what the world looks like , but I still think I &apos;m going to live the whole life in UNK , until all things have changed . 

post: Khi tôi lên 7 , tôi chứng kiến cảnh người ta xử bắn công khai lần đầu tiên trong đời , nhưng tôi vẫn nghĩ cuộc sống của mình ở đây là hoàn toàn bình thường .
response: When I was seven years old , I saw my first public execution , but I thought my life in North Korea was normal .
infer: When I was seven , I saw the people that I was in the first time I was doing for the first time in my life , but I still think my life is completely normal . 
beam: When I was seven , I saw that people were doing the first time in my life , but I still think my life is completely normal . 

post: Gia đình của tôi không nghèo , và bản thân tôi thì chưa từng phải chịu đói .
response: My family was not poor , and myself , I had never experienced hunger .
infer: My family wasn &apos;t poor , and I had not let myself be hungry . 
beam: My family wasn &apos;t poor , and I had never been hungry . 

post: Nhưng vào một ngày của năm 1995 , mẹ tôi mang về nhà một lá thư từ một người chị em cùng chỗ làm với mẹ .
response: But one day , in 1995 , my mom brought home a letter from a coworker &apos;s sister .
infer: But I was in a day in 1995 , my mother brought home a letters from a lady and her sister and she had been working with her mom . 
beam: On the day of 1995 , my mother brought home to a letters from a lady and sisters work with her mom . 

post: Trong đó có viết : Khi chị đọc được những dòng này thì cả gia đình 5 người của em đã không còn trên cõi đời này nữa , bởi vì cả nhà em đã không có gì để ăn trong hai tuần .
response: It read , &quot; When you read this , all five family members will not exist in this world , because we haven &apos;t eaten for the past two weeks .
infer: And she wrote them , when you read these lines , the whole five people were left in this life anymore , because they had nothing to eat during two weeks . 
beam: And she wrote it : When you read these lines , the whole five people were left in this life anymore , because they had nothing to eat during two weeks . 

post: Tất cả cùng nằm trên sàn , và cơ thể chúng tôi yếu đến có thể cảm thấy như cái chết đang đến rất gần .
response: We are lying on the floor together , and our bodies are so weak we are ready to die . &quot;
infer: It &apos;s all about the ground , and our bodies are UNK to be as if the death is getting close . 
beam: The whole thing lies on the floor , and our bodies are basically able to feel like dying is coming close . 

post: Tôi đã bị sốc .
response: I was so shocked .
infer: I was shocked . 
beam: I was shocked . 

post: Vì đó là lần đầu tiên tôi biết rằng đồng bào của tôi đang phải chịu đựng như vậy .
response: This was the first time I heard that people in my country were suffering .
infer: Because it was first for the first time that my UNK could suffering up like that . 
beam: Because it &apos;s the first time I know that my cell is suffering like that . 

post: Không lâu sau đó , khi tôi đi qua một nhà ga , tôi nhìn thấy một cảnh tượng kinh hoàng mà tôi không bao giờ có thể quên
response: Soon after , when I was walking past a train station , I saw something terrible that I can &apos;t erase from my memory .
infer: Shortly after , when I walked across a UNK , I saw a horror scene that I could never forget . 
beam: Shortly after , when I walked across a UNK , I saw a horror scene that I could never forget . 

post: Trên nền nhà ga là xác chết của một người đàn bà hai tay vẫn đang ôm một đứa bé hốc hác và đứa bé chỉ biết nhìn chằm chằm vào khuôn mặt của mẹ nó .
response: A lifeless woman was lying on the ground , while an emaciated child in her arms just stared helplessly at his mother &apos;s face .
infer: On the UNK , it &apos;s a UNK of a man who &apos;s holding a UNK UNK , and the child just knows how to stand at her face . 
beam: On the UNK , the UNK UNK is a UNK UNK who &apos;s holding a UNK UNK , and the child just knows how to stand at her face . 

post: Nhưng không có ai giúp họ , bởi vì tất cả đều đang phải lo cho chính mình và cả gia đình .
response: But nobody helped them , because they were so focused on taking care of themselves and their families .
infer: But nobody helped them , because they are all concerned with himself and family . 
beam: But nobody helped them , because they all have to worry about themselves and family . 

post: Vào giữa những năm 90 , Bắc Triều Tiên trải qua một nạn đói trầm trọng .
response: A huge famine hit North Korea in the mid-1990s .
infer: In the middle of the 1990s , South Korea experienced a severe famine famine . 
beam: In the middle of the 1990s , South Korea experienced a severe famine famine . 

post: Nó khiến hơn một triệu người Triều Tiên chết trong nạn đói , và nhiều người chỉ sống sót phải ăn cỏ , sâu bọ và vỏ cây .
response: Ultimately , more than a million North Koreans died during the famine , and many only survived by eating grass , bugs and tree bark .
infer: It &apos;s made more than a million UNK die of starvation , and many people who survive to eat grass and UNK and UNK . 
beam: It &apos;s made more than a million UNK die of starvation , and people who survive to eat grass and UNK and UNK . 

post: Việc cúp điện ngày càng xảy ra thường xuyên , vì thế mọi thứ xung quanh tôi đều chìm vào bóng tối khi đêm đến ngoại trừ ánh sáng đèn từ phía Trung Quốc chỉ cách nhà tôi một con sông .
response: Power outages also became more and more frequent , so everything around me was completely dark at night except for the sea of lights in China , just across the river from my home .
infer: The UNK thing is going to happen , so that &apos;s all around me , and it &apos;s dark , and it &apos;s dark light from the Chinese &apos;s UNK that &apos;s only home with one of my UNK . 
beam: The UNK thing is going to happen , so that &apos;s all around me , and it turns to darkness , and it &apos;s dark , and it &apos;s the light that I have a river on the Chinese . 

post: Tôi lúc nào cũng tự hỏi là tại sao họ lại có điện còn chúng tôi thì không .
response: I always wondered why they had lights but we didn &apos;t .
infer: I always asked myself why they were electricity and maybe not . 
beam: I always wonder why they have electricity , we don &apos;t . 

post: Đây là một bức ảnh từ vệ tinh chụp Bắc Triều Tiên vào ban đêm trong tương quan với các nước xung quanh .
response: This is a satellite picture showing North Korea at night compared to neighbors .
infer: This is an image from the North UNK UNK UNK at night in the UNK of the countries . 
beam: This is an image from the North UNK UNK UNK at night in the UNK of the countries . 

post: Đây là sông Áp Lục nó là biên giới tự nhiên giữa Bắc Triều Tiên và Trung Quốc .
response: This is the Amrok River , which serves as a part of the border between North Korea and China .
infer: This is the UNK River , which is the natural Asian UNK , and it &apos;s a natural border of UNK and China . 
beam: This is the UNK River , which is the natural Asian UNK , in North Korea and China . 

post: Có thể thấy là lòng sông có đoạn rất hẹp vì thế một số người Bắc Triều Tiên bí mật vượt sang Trung Quốc .
response: As you can see , the river can be very narrow at certain points , allowing North Koreans to secretly cross .
infer: It &apos;s a bit of a UNK behavior , so there &apos;s some South Korea UNK and secret to China . 
beam: You can see that the river would have a very short UNK , so some of the secret UNK are coming to China . 

post: Nhưng rất nhiều người đã chết .
response: But many die .
infer: But a lot of people died . 
beam: But a lot of people died . 

post: Và tôi đã nhìn thấy xác họ nổi trên sông .
response: Sometimes , I saw dead bodies floating down the river .
infer: And I saw the UNK of them in the river . 
beam: And I saw them all over the river . 

post: Tôi không thể nói cụ thể về việc mình đã trốn khỏi Bắc Triều Tiên như thế nào chỉ có thể nói rằng trong những năm tháng khốn khó vì nạn đói ấy tôi được gửi sang Trung Quốc để sống với một người họ hàng xa .
response: I can &apos;t reveal many details &#91; about &#93; how I left North Korea , but I only can say that during the ugly years of the famine I was sent to China to live with distant relatives .
infer: I can &apos;t tell you how I &apos;ve lost from North Korean , how can it be possible to say that in the tough months that &apos;s difficult because of the problem that I have been sent to China to live with a man who &apos;s UNK . 
beam: I can &apos;t tell you how I &apos;m left from North Korean , how can you say that in the tough months that &apos;s difficult because of the trauma that I have been sent to China to live with a person . 

post: Lúc đó , tôi chỉ nghĩ rằng mình sẽ phải xa gia đình một thời gian ngắn .
response: But I only thought that I would be separated from my family for a short time .
infer: At the time , I just thought I was going to have to go ahead from some short-term time . 
beam: At the time , I just thought I was going to have to go ahead from a short time . 

post: chứ không bao giờ tôi có thể tưởng tượng rằng tôi sẽ phải xa họ những 14 năm ròng .
response: I could have never imagined that it would take 14 years to live together .
infer: Never ever imagined me that I would have been 14 years of UNK . 
beam: I would never imagine that I would have been 14 years of UNK . 

post: Ở Trung Quốc , cuộc sống của một cô bé bị cách ly khỏi gia đình như tôi rất khó khăn .
response: In China , it was hard living as a young girl without my family .
infer: In China , her life was isolated from a long way away from the family as I was very tough . 
beam: In China , her life was never isolated away from families as I was very tough . 

post: Tôi đã không tưởng được những gì xảy đến với cuộc sống của một người tị nạn từ Bắc Triều Tiên thì sẽ như thế nào , nhưng tôi sớm nhận ra rằng nó không những rất khó khăn , mà còn vô cùng nguy hiểm , vì những người tị nạn từ Bắc Triều Tiên vào Trung Quốc đều bị coi là dân nhập cư trái phép .
response: I had no idea what life was going to be like as a North Korean refugee , but I soon learned it &apos;s not only extremely difficult , it &apos;s also very dangerous , since North Korean refugees are considered in China as illegal migrants .
infer: Well , I &apos;ve been to realize that it &apos;s not very difficult , but it &apos;s also dangerous , because refugees from North Korea in China are considered the UNK population , but the refugees are very dangerous , because the refugees in China are considered to be UNK
beam: Well , I didn &apos;t think that what happened with the life of a refugee from North Korea , but I soon had no idea what was very difficult , but was very dangerous , because refugees from North Korea in China were considered to be UNK . 

post: Tôi luôn sống trong một nỗi sợ thường trực rằng danh tính của tôi sẽ bị phát hiện , và tôi sẽ bị trả về với cuộc sống cũ ở Bắc Triều Tiên .
response: So I was living in constant fear that my identity could be revealed , and I would be repatriated to a horrible fate back in North Korea .
infer: I lived in a UNK that UNK my identity would be found , and I was going to return to the old , UNK North Pole in North Korea . 
beam: I always live in a violent UNK that my identity is going to be found , and I &apos;m going to return to the old UNK in North Korea . 

post: Một ngày , cơn ác mộng đó đã thành sự thật , tôi đã bị cảnh sát Trung Quốc bắt và đưa đến đồn cảnh sát để chất vấn .
response: One day , my worst nightmare came true , when I was caught by the Chinese police and brought to the police station for interrogation .
infer: One day , that UNK was a fact that I was UNK by the Chinese , and it was taking the police to police . 
beam: On one day , that UNK was the truth that I was UNK by the Chinese and moved to the police UNK to lay out . 

post: Có ai đó đã báo với họ rằng tôi là người Bắc Triều Tiên , vì thế họ đã kiểm tra khả năng tiếng Trung của tôi và hỏi tôi rất nhiều câu hỏi .
response: Someone had accused me of being North Korean , so they tested my Chinese language abilities and asked me tons of questions .
infer: Someone reported to them that I was the North UNK , so they best test my ability to look at me and ask me a lot of questions . 
beam: Someone reported to them that I was in North Korea , so they best test my ability to look at me and ask me a lot of questions . 

post: Tôi đã vô cùng sợ hãi , và có cảm giác như tim mình sắp nổ tung .
response: I was so scared , I thought my heart was going to explode .
infer: I was incredibly afraid , and had a sense of heart than my heart . 
beam: I was very nervous , and had felt like my heart went out . 

post: Vì nếu như họ thấy có điều gì không tự nhiên , tôi sẽ bị tống vào tù và rồi bị trả về nước .
response: If anything seemed unnatural , I could be imprisoned and repatriated .
infer: Because if they saw something that doesn &apos;t naturally , I would get thrown in prison , and I was getting back to the water . 
beam: Because if they saw something that doesn &apos;t naturally , I would get stuck in prison , and I was getting back to the water . 

post: Tôi nghĩ cuộc đời mình đến đây là chấm dứt , nhưng tôi vẫn cố gắng điều khiển những cảm xúc của mình và trả lời những câu hỏi của họ .
response: I thought my life was over , but I managed to control all the emotions inside me and answer the questions .
infer: I think my life is going to end , but I &apos;m trying to manipulate my emotions and to answer their questions . 
beam: I think my life is going to end , but I &apos;m trying to manipulate my emotions and to answer their questions . 

post: Sau khi hỏi xong , một trong hai cảnh sát nói với người kia , Đây là một vụ chỉ điểm sai .
response: After they finished questioning me , one official said to another , &quot; This was a false report .
infer: So , in fact , one of the two cops said to the other , this is a UNK scene . 
beam: When you &apos;re done , one of the two cops said to the other , this is a UNK task . 

post: Nó không phải là người Bắc Triều Tiên . &quot;
response: She &apos;s not North Korean . &quot;
infer: It &apos;s not the North Korea , it &apos;s not the North Korea guy . &quot; 
beam: It &apos;s not the Korean North guy . &quot; 

post: Và họ thả tôi ra . Đó quả là một phép màu .
response: And they let me go . It was a miracle .
infer: And they &apos;re putting me out . It &apos;s a miracle . 
beam: And they released me . That &apos;s a miracle . 

post: Một số người Bắc Triều Tiên ở Trung Quốc đã đến những đại sứ quán của nước ngoài để xin tị nạn , nhưng rất nhiều trong số đó đã bị bắt bởi cảnh sát Trung Quốc và bị trả về nước .
response: Some North Koreans in China seek asylum in foreign embassies , but many can be caught by the Chinese police and repatriated .
infer: Some North Korea in China came to UNK foreign UNK for refugee , but many of them were arrested by the Chinese UNK and was sent back to water . 
beam: Some North Korea in China came to UNK foreign UNK for refugee , but many of it was arrested by the Chinese UNK and was sent back to water . 

post: những cô gái này đã rất may mắn .
response: These girls were so lucky .
infer: These girls are lucky . 
beam: These girls are lucky . 

post: vì mặc dù đã bị bắt , nhưng cuối cùng học cũng được thả ra nhờ vào sức ép từ cộng đồng quốc tế .
response: Even though they were caught , they were eventually released after heavy international pressure .
infer: UNK , it &apos;s been released , but it &apos;s been finally released by UNK UNK from international communities . 
beam: So even though it &apos;s been arrested , it &apos;s been released by UNK from international communities . 

post: Nhưng những người Bắc Triều Tiên này thì không được may mắn như vậy .
response: These North Koreans were not so lucky .
infer: But these UNK are not so fortunate . 
beam: But these UNK are not so fortunate . 

post: Hàng năm , có vô số người Bắc Triều Tiên bị bắt ở Trung Quốc và bị trả về nước , nơi mà họ bị tra tấn , bị giam cầm hoặc bị xử tử công khai .
response: Every year , countless North Koreans are caught in China and repatriated to North Korea , where they can be tortured , imprisoned or publicly executed .
infer: Every year , there were UNK , South Korea were arrested in China , and was returned to the water , where they were tortured , they were UNK , they were UNK , they were UNK , they were UNK . 
beam: Every year , there were UNK , South Korea were caught in China , and was returned in , which they were tortured , they were UNK , they were UNK , they were UNK , they were UNK . 

post: Trong khi tôi rất may mắn vì đã được thả ra thì rất nhiều đồng bào của tôi lại không được như vậy .
response: Even though I was really fortunate to get out , many other North Koreans have not been so lucky .
infer: While I was lucky , I was so lucky that I was released , a lot of my cells were not . 
beam: While I was lucky , I was very lucky to have released many of my cells . 

post: Việc người Bắc Triều Tiên phải che dấu danh tính của mình và đấu tranh để tồn tại quả là một bi kịch .
response: It &apos;s tragic that North Koreans have to hide their identities and struggle so hard just to survive .
infer: North Korea had to hide their identities and fighting to exist as a tragedy . 
beam: North Korea have to hide their identities and fighting to exist as a tragedy . 

post: Kể cả khi đã học tiếng Trung và tìm được một công việc , thì cuộc sống của họ cũng có thể bị đảo lộn hoàn toàn chỉ trong một khoảng khắc .
response: Even after learning a new language and getting a job , their whole world can be turned upside down in an instant .
infer: Even if they &apos;ve been Japanese and finding a job , their lives can also be completely UNK in about a moment . 
beam: Even if they &apos;ve been singing Chinese and found a job , their lives can also be completely UNK in about a moment . 

post: Đó là lý do tại sao sau 10 năm che dấu danh tính thật tôi quyết định liều mình đi đến Hàn Quốc , để bắt đầu một cuộc sống mới một lần nữa .
response: That &apos;s why , after 10 years of hiding my identity , I decided to risk going to South Korea , and I started a new life yet again .
infer: That &apos;s why after 10 years of the identity mark after 10 years of identity , so I decided to take off the way to Korea , to start a live life . 
beam: That &apos;s why after 10 years of the identity mark I decided to go to Korea , to start a life of life again . 

post: Việc ổn định cuộc sống ở đây khó khăn hơn nhiều so với tôi tưởng tượng .
response: Settling down in South Korea was a lot more challenging than I had expected .
infer: So , the stability of living is that much harder than I imagined . 
beam: UNK living is much more difficult than I imagined . 

post: Vì ở Hàn Quốc , tiếng Anh có vị trí vô cùng quan trọng , nên tôi đã bắt đầu học tiếng Anh , ngôn ngữ thứ ba của tôi .
response: English was so important in South Korea , so I had to start learning my third language .
infer: Since in Korea , English has the most important location , so I started learning English , language of my third language . 
beam: Since in Korea , English has the most important location , so I started learning English , my third language . 

post: Tôi cũng nhận ra một khoảng cách rất lớn giữa người Nam và Bắc Triều Tiên .
response: Also , I realized there was a wide gap between North and South .
infer: I also realized that there was a huge gap between South and South Korea . 
beam: I also realized a very large gap between South and North Korea . 

post: Chúng tôi đều là người Triều Tiên , nhưng đã trở nên rất khác nhau do hậu quả của 67 năm bị chia cắt .
response: We are all Korean , but inside , we have become very different due to 67 years of division .
infer: We were UNK , but we had become very different from the consequences of UNK , which we had left . 
beam: We are all UNK , but we &apos;ve become very different from the consequences of UNK , which has been divided . 

post: Tôi đã trải qua một cuộc khủng hoảng về nguồn gốc của mình .
response: I even went through an identity crisis .
infer: I &apos;ve been through a crisis of my own source . 
beam: I had an UNK crisis . 

post: Tôi là người Nam Triều Tiên hay Bắc Triều Tiên ?
response: Am I South Korean or North Korean ?
infer: I &apos;m South South Korea , or South Korea ? 
beam: I &apos;m South South Korea , or South Korea ? 

post: Tôi đến từ đâu ? và Tôi là ai ?
response: Where am I from ? Who am I ?
infer: Where did I come from ? And I was ? 
beam: Where did I come from ? And I ? 

post: Bỗng nhiên , tôi chẳng có một đất nước nào để có thể tự hào gọi là Tổ quốc .
response: Suddenly , there was no country I could proudly call my own .
infer: Suddenly , I had no nation to be proud of the proud of the UNK . 
beam: Suddenly , I didn &apos;t have a country to be able to call the country itself . 

post: Mặc dù để thích ứng với cuộc sống ở Hàn Quốc thì không dễ chút nào Nhưng tôi đã lập một kế hoạch .
response: Even though adjusting to life in South Korea was not easy , I made a plan .
infer: UNK of the way in Korean , it &apos;s not easy , but I have a plan for a plan . 
beam: UNK of life in Korea is not very easy , but I planned a plan . 

post: và bắt đầu học để chuẩn bị cho kì thi đại học .
response: I started studying for the university entrance exam .
infer: And so we started to learn how to prepare for the college . 
beam: And I started learning how to prepare for college . 

post: Tuy vậy , ngay khi tôi vừa mới làm quen với cuộc sống ở đây , thì tôi được báo một tin khủng khiếp .
response: Just as I was starting to get used to my new life , I received a shocking phone call .
infer: And yet , as soon as I &apos;ve just done this with my lives , I was UNK . 
beam: And yet , as soon as I &apos;ve been working familiar with my life here , I get a terrible news message . 

post: Chính quyền Bắc Triều Tiên đã phát hiện ra số tiền mà tôi gửi về cho gia đình , và , để trừng phạt , họ sẽ bắt gia đình tôi phải chuyển về một vùng bị cách ly ở nông thôn .
response: The North Korean authorities intercepted some money that I sent to my family , and , as a punishment , my family was going to be forcibly removed to a desolate location in the countryside .
infer: The North UNK of North UNK had discovered the money that I sent back to my family , and , to punish , they would come family , and they would come home , and they would come home , and they would come home , and they would have
beam: The North UNK of North South UNK had discovered the money that I sent back to my family , and , in order for UNK , they would take my family a way that I had been UNK in rural areas . 

post: Để họ có thể nhanh chóng thoát ra khỏi đó , tôi bắt đầu lập kế hoạch giúp gia đình mình trốn thoát .
response: They had to get out quickly , so I started planning how to help them escape .
infer: And so they could quickly get out of that away , and I started planning to UNK my family to escape . 
beam: And so they could quickly get out of there , and I started my own UNK for my family away . 

post: Người Bắc Triều Tiên đã phải vượt qua những khoảng cách dường như không tưởng để đến với tự do .
response: North Koreans have to travel incredible distances on the path to freedom .
infer: The North UNK have to cross the distance that it seems impossible to come together . 
beam: The North UNK have to deal with things like UNK to the freedom . 

post: Bời vì việc vượt biên từ Bắc sang Nam Triều Tiên gần như là không thể , vì thế , tôi phải bay sang Trung Quốc rồi lại đi ngược về phía biên giới Bắc Triều Tiên .
response: It &apos;s almost impossible to cross the border between North Korea and South Korea , so , ironically , I took a flight back to China and I headed toward the North Korean border .
infer: Because it was because of crossing North Pole to South Korea is almost impossible , so I have to fly to China and go back towards North Korea . 
beam: Because it &apos;s because of crossing North Pole to South Korea is almost impossible , so I have to fly to China and go back towards North Korea . 

post: Bởi vì gia đình tôi không biết tiếng Trung , nên tôi phải đi cùng mọi người qua 2000 dặm ở Trung Quốc rồi vào đến Đông Nam Á
response: Since my family couldn &apos;t speak Chinese , I had to guide them , somehow , through more than 2,000 miles in China and then into Southeast Asia .
infer: Because my family has no idea , so I have to go and go through 2,000 miles in China , and then in East Asia . 
beam: Because my family did not know Chinese , so I have to go , and people over 2,000 miles in China , and then in East Asia . 

post: Cuộc hành trình bằng xe buýt kéo dài khoảng 1 tuần , và đã vài lần chúng tôi suýt bị bắt .
response: The journey by bus took one week , and we were almost caught several times .
infer: The expedition journey about a week , and several times the time we were almost arrested . 
beam: The expedition journey about a week , and several times the time we were almost arrested . 

post: Một lần , xe của chúng tôi bị chặn lại và bị khám xét bởi một cảnh sát Trung quốc .
response: One time , our bus was stopped and boarded by a Chinese police officer .
infer: Again , our car are UNK and discovered by a national police officer . 
beam: Again , our car are UNK and discovered by a national policeman . 

post: Anh ta thu chứng minh thư của tất cả mọi người , và bắt đầu tra hỏi .
response: He took everyone &apos;s I.D. cards , and he started asking them questions .
infer: He UNK everybody &apos;s UNK , and started asking it . 
beam: He UNK everybody &apos;s UNK , and started asking it . 

post: Bởi vì gia đình tôi không hiểu tiếng Trung , nên tôi đã nghĩ rằng họ sẽ bị bắt .
response: Since my family couldn &apos;t understand Chinese , I thought my family was going to be arrested .
infer: Because my family didn &apos;t understand Chinese , so I thought they were going to be arrested . 
beam: Because my family didn &apos;t understand Chinese , so I thought they were going to get caught . 

post: Khi người cảnh sát Trung Quốc đến gần họ , tôi đã ngay lập tức đứng dậy và nói với anh ta rằng đây là những người câm điếc mà tôi đang phải đi cùng .
response: As the Chinese officer approached my family , I impulsively stood up , and I told him that these are deaf and dumb people that I was chaperoning .
infer: When the Chinese police came near them , I was at the end of the U.N. , and told him that these were UNK people that I had to go with . 
beam: When the Chinese police came to them , it was near them , and I immediately stand up and told him that these were UNK people that I was running with . 

post: Anh ta nhìn tôi đầy nghi ngờ , nhưng thật may mắn là anh ta tin lời tôi .
response: He looked at me suspiciously , but luckily he believed me .
infer: He was at an extraordinary and a little bit of a UNK , but fortunately he trusted me . 
beam: He looked at me all UNK , but he actually believed me . 

post: Và chúng tôi tiếp tục đi cho tới biên giới Lào , nhung tôi đã phải sử dụng gần như toàn bộ số tiền mà mình có để hối lộ cho những người canh gác biên giới Lào .
response: We made it all the way to the border of Laos , but I had to spend almost all my money to bribe the border guards in Laos .
infer: And we kept going to borders limit , and I was going to have to use nearly the entire amount of money that I have bribes for the UNK UNK . 
beam: And we &apos;re going to go to the border UNK , and I have to use nearly the entire thing that I have bribes for the UNK UNK . 

post: Tuy nhiên , sau khi chúng tôi qua được biên giới , gia đình tôi lại bị bắt vào tù vì tội vượt biên trái phép .
response: But even after we got past the border , my family was arrested and jailed for illegal border crossing .
infer: However , after we got over the borders , my family was arrested in prison because of the border of the allowed . 
beam: However , after we got over the borders , my family was arrested to jail because of the border of the UNK . 

post: Sau khi tôi nộp tiền phạt và đưa hối lộ , gia đình tôi được thả ra trong một tháng , rồi lại bị bắt lần nữa ở thủ đô của Lào
response: After I paid the fine and bribe , my family was released in one month , but soon after , my family was arrested and jailed again in the capital of Laos .
infer: And after I left my sentence in my sentence , and I walked to the bribes , my family was released for a month , and I was again again . 
beam: And after I UNK the fine and I gave the bribe , my family was released in a month , and again again again . 

post: Đó là thời điểm tuyệt vọng nhất trong cuộc đời tôi .
response: This was one of the lowest points in my life .
infer: It was the most exciting time in my life . 
beam: It was the most exciting time in my life . 

post: Tôi đã làm đủ mọi cách để đưa gia đình mình đến với tự do , và chũng tôi gần như đã thành công nhưng họ lại bị bắt trong khi chúng tôi chỉ còn cách đại sứ quán Hàn Quốc một khoảng cách rất ngắn nữa thôi .
response: I did everything to get my family to freedom , and we came so close , but my family was thrown in jail just a short distance from the South Korean embassy .
infer: I did all kinds of years of getting my family together , and I came up with a success , and they were kind of succeeded , and they were so much caught when we were only the ones of the National UNK , and the UNK approach . 
beam: I did all kinds of years of getting my family together , and I came up with a success , and they were kind of succeeded , but they were caught when we were able to UNK South Korea . 

post: Tôi đi đi về về giữa phòng xuất nhập cảnh và đồn cảnh sát , tuyệt vọng tìm cách để đưa gia đình mình thoát khỏi đó , nhưng tôi không còn đủ tiền để hối lộ hay trả tiền phạt nữa .
response: I went back and forth between the immigration office and the police station , desperately trying to get my family out , but I didn &apos;t have enough money to pay a bribe or fine anymore .
infer: I was walking home about the UNK and the UNK , and was really looking to find out how to walk my family out of it , but I didn &apos;t have enough money to pay any bribe or pay any more than that . 
beam: I was walking home about the UNK and the UNK , and it was really hoping to walk my family out of it , but I didn &apos;t have enough money to pay any bribe or pay any UNK . 

post: Tôi hoàn toàn tuyệt vọng .
response: I lost all hope .
infer: I was completely desperate . 
beam: I was completely desperate . 

post: Đúng vào lúc đó , có một người đàn ông đã hỏi tôi , &quot; Có chuyện gì vậy ? &quot;
response: At that moment , I heard one man &apos;s voice ask me , &quot; What &apos;s wrong ? &quot;
infer: Just at the time , there was a man who asked me , &quot; What &apos;s wrong ? &quot; 
beam: At the point , there was a man who asked me , &quot; What &apos;s wrong ? &quot; 

post: Tôi vô cùng ngạc nhiên khi một người hoàn toàn xa lạ lại quan tâm tới mức hỏi tôi như vậy .
response: I was so surprised that a total stranger cared enough to ask .
infer: I was surprised by a stranger that was so exposed to me that I could say . 
beam: I was surprised by some person that was totally exposed to the question of asking me . 

post: Bằng vốn tiếng Anh ít ỏi của mình và một quyển từ điển , tôi đã kể cho cho ông ta nghe hoàn cảnh của gia đình tôi . Không một chút do dự , người đàn ông đó đã đi tới máy ATM. trả tất cả số tiền còn thiếu cho cả gia đình tôi và hai người Bắc Triều Tiên khác để họ được ra tù
response: In my broken English , and with a dictionary , I explained the situation , and without hesitating , the man went to the ATM and he paid the rest of the money for my family and two other North Koreans to get out of jail .
infer: For example , the UNK English , in my UNK , I told him , was going to be a little bit of UNK , and the man was going to pay all the money that he had lost her family and two other UNK UNK , so they were
beam: You know , in my UNK , it &apos;s a little bit , that man who went to the UNK pays all the money that went out of her family and two other UNK UNK , so they could go to jail as well . 

post: Tôi đã cám ơn ông ta bằng cả trái tim mình , và tôi cũng hỏi , &quot; Tại sao ông lại giúp đỡ tôi ? &quot;
response: I thanked him with all my heart , and I asked him , &quot; Why are you helping me ? &quot;
infer: I was convinced him for my heart , and I asked him , &quot; Why did you help me ? &quot; 
beam: I &apos;ve convinced him for my heart , and I &apos;m like , &quot; Why did you help me ? &quot; 

post: &quot; Tôi không giúp đỡ cô , &quot; Ông ta trả lời .
response: &quot; I &apos;m not helping you , &quot; he said .
infer: &quot; I don &apos;t help her , &quot; He replied . 
beam: &quot; I didn &apos;t help her , &quot; he said . 

post: &quot; &apos; Tôi đang giúp người Bắc Triều Tiên . &quot;
response: &quot; I &apos;m helping the North Korean people . &quot;
infer: &quot; I &apos;m helping North Korea . &quot; 
beam: &quot; I &apos;m helping North Korea . &quot; 

post: Tôi nhận ra rằng đó là một khoảng khắc có ý nghĩa vô cùng to lớn trong cuộc đời tôi .
response: I realized that this was a symbolic moment in my life .
infer: I realized that it was a UNK UNK UNK in my life . 
beam: I realized that it was a UNK UNK UNK in my life . 

post: Lòng tốt từ người đàn ông xa lạ trở thành biểu tượng hy vọng mới cho tôi và cả những người dân Bắc Triều Tiên khi mà chúng tôi đang rất cần nó , và ông ta đã cho tôi thấy lòng tốt từ những người xa lạ và sự hỗ trợ của cộng đồng quốc tế chính là những tia hy vọng mà người Bắc Triều Tiên chúng tôi đang tìm kiếm .
response: The kind stranger symbolized new hope for me and the North Korean people when we needed it most , and he showed me the kindness of strangers and the support of the international community are truly the rays of hope we North Korean people need .
infer: UNK UNK UNK became a UNK description and UNK , and that we &apos;d already have to be good from the strangers and advocacy of the international community , that the UNK that we were looking for , was the ones that the northern Korea we were looking for .
beam: UNK UNK from this young UNK became a UNK of UNK for me and the UNK of the international community , which was the UNK of the UNK that we were looking for . 

post: Cuối cùng , sau một cuộc hành trình dài tôi và gia đình đã được đoàn tụ ở Hàn Quốc , nhưng đến được với tự do mới chỉ là một nửa của cuộc đấu tranh .
response: Eventually , after our long journey , my family and I were reunited in South Korea , but getting to freedom is only half the battle .
infer: Finally , after a long journey , and the family was UNK in Korea , but to the freedom of the freedom of just about half of the fight . 
beam: Finally , after a long journey , and the family was UNK in Korea , but to the freedom of the freedom itself was only half of the war . 

post: Rất nhiều người Bắc Triều Tiên đang bị chia cắt với gia đình của họ , và khi họ đến được một đất nước khác , họ phải bắt đầu từ đầu với rất ít hoặc gần như không có tiền bạc .
response: Many North Koreans are separated from their families , and when they arrive in a new country , they start with little or no money .
infer: Many North UNK are spoken to their families , and when they come to a different country , they have to start with a very little , or near UNK . 
beam: A lot of North UNK are UNK with their families , and when they come to another country , they have to start with so little or near money . 

post: Vì thế chúng tôi có thể nhận sự trợ giúp từ cộng đồng quốc tế cho giáo dục , đào tạo tiếng Anh , dạy nghề , và nhiều lĩnh vực khác .
response: So we can benefit from the international community for education , English language training , job training , and more .
infer: So we could get aid from the international community to education , training English , and more of the other areas . 
beam: So we could take aid from the UNK community of education , training English , and many other areas . 

post: Chúng tôi cũng có thể đóng vai trò như cầu nối giữa những người đang ở trong Bắc Triều Tiên với thế giới bên ngoài , bởi vì có rất nhiều người trong chúng tôi đang giữ liên lạc với những thành viên gia đình khác ở trong nước , và chúng tôi chia sẻ với họ thông tin và tiền bạc để có thể thay đổi Bắc Triều Tiên từ phía trong .
response: We can also act as a bridge between the people inside North Korea and the outside world , because many of us stay in contact with family members still inside , and we send information and money that is helping to change North Korea from inside .
infer: We could also be a game that UNK between all , for a lot of people in North Korea , and that &apos;s because there are so many of us working in UNK with family members in the country , and we share with them , and we share it
beam: We could also play a UNK between the people in North Korea with the rest of the world , because there are so many of us working with other families in the country , and we share with them , and we share with them , and there &apos;s money

post: Tôi đã vô cùng may mắn khi nhận được rất nhiều sự giúp đỡ và được truyền cảm hứng trong suốt cuộc đời mình , vì vậy tôi muốn mình cũng có thể chung sức để mang đến cho đất nước tôi một cơ hội để phát triển cùng với sự hỗ trợ của quốc tế .
response: I &apos;ve been so lucky , received so much help and inspiration in my life , so I want to help give aspiring North Koreans a chance to prosper with international support .
infer: I was incredibly lucky to get a lot of help and UNK in my lifetime , so I wanted to be able to be able to bring it together to my country as a opportunity to develop the UNK of international support . 
beam: I was incredibly lucky to get a lot of help and be UNK in my lifetime , so I wanted to be able to be able to bring out to the country that I needed to develop with international support . 

post: Tôi tin tưởng rằng các bạn sẽ nhìn thấy ngày càng nhiều người Bắc Triều Tiên thành công ở mọi nơi trên thế giới , kể cả trên sân khấu của TED
response: I &apos;m confident that you will see more and more North Koreans succeeding all over the world , including the TED stage .
infer: I believe you &apos;ll see that there &apos;s more and more coming in South Korea everywhere in all around the world , including on the stage . 
beam: I do believe that you &apos;re going to see more and more of South Korea everywhere throughout the world , including on the TED stage . 

post: Cám ơn các bạn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Hôm nay tôi chỉ có một yêu cầu mà thôi .
response: Today I have just one request .
infer: I &apos;ve only got a UNK UNK here . 
beam: I &apos;ve only got one UNK . 

post: Xin đừng nói với tôi rằng tôi bình thường .
response: Please don &apos;t tell me I &apos;m normal .
infer: Don &apos;t tell me that I am okay . 
beam: Don &apos;t tell me I am normal . 

post: Bây giờ tôi muốn giới thiệu các bạn với những người em trai của tôi
response: Now I &apos;d like to introduce you to my brothers .
infer: Now I want to introduce you to my sons . 
beam: Now I want to introduce you to my brothers . 

post: Remi 22 tuổi , cao ráo và rất đẹp trai ,
response: Remi is 22 , tall and very handsome .
infer: UNK UNK , UNK and handsome . 
beam: UNK UNK , UNK and handsome . 

post: Em không nói được , nhưng em truyền đạt niềm vui theo cách mà ngay cả một số nhà hùng biện giỏi nhất cũng không thể làm được .
response: He &apos;s speechless , but he communicates joy in a way that some of the best orators cannot .
infer: You don &apos;t say , but I do have the joy in the way that even among the best UNK can &apos;t possibly do . 
beam: You don &apos;t say it , but I do you do the joy in a way that even among the best UNK can &apos;t do . 

post: Remi biết tình yêu là gì .
response: Remi knows what love is .
infer: UNK know what love love is . 
beam: UNK know what love love is . 

post: Em chia sẻ nó một cách vô điều kiện dù bất kể ra sao chăng nữa .
response: He shares it unconditionally and he shares it regardless .
infer: I share it so UNK . 
beam: I share it so UNK . 

post: Em ấy không tham lam . Em không phân biệt màu da .
response: He &apos;s not greedy . He doesn &apos;t see skin color .
infer: She didn &apos;t be in the wrong . He didn &apos;t put the color . 
beam: He didn &apos;t be greedy . He &apos;s not UNK . 

post: Em không quan tâm về sự khác biệt tôn giáo , và hãy hiểu rằng : Em ấy chưa từng nói dối .
response: He doesn &apos;t care about religious differences , and get this : He has never told a lie .
infer: I don &apos;t worry about religious importance , and look at that : I haven &apos;t been lying . 
beam: I don &apos;t worry about religious importance , and look at this : I haven &apos;t been lying . 

post: Khi em hát những bài hát từ thời thơ ấu của chúng tôi , cố gắng nhớ những từ mà đến tôi cũng không thể , em ấy gợi nhớ cho tôi một điều rằng : chúng ta biết ít về bộ não đến như thế nào , và cái ta chưa biết phải tuyệt vời đến thế nào .
response: When he sings songs from our childhood , attempting words that not even I could remember , he reminds me of one thing : how little we know about the mind , and how wonderful the unknown must be .
infer: When I go to sing our childhood songs , trying to remember the words I cannot come from , and I can &apos;t remember the words I can &apos;t , and I can &apos;t remember the word I mean , &quot; We know how little brains is , and what
beam: When I go UNK songs from our childhood childhood , trying to remember the words I cannot come , she reminds me that we know how little brains brains are , and what we don &apos;t know how great it is . 

post: Samuel 16 tuổi . Em cao ráo . Em cũng rất đẹp trai .
response: Samuel is 16 . He &apos;s tall . He &apos;s very handsome .
infer: It was UNK . He was also too young . 
beam: He was UNK . He was thrilled . 

post: Em có một trí nhớ cực hoàn hảo .
response: He has the most impeccable memory .
infer: You have a perfect memory . 
beam: You have a perfect memory . 

post: Nhưng cũng là có chọn lọc .
response: He has a selective one , though .
infer: But also , there is selection . 
beam: But also , there is selection . 

post: Em không nhớ liệu em có xoáy thanh kẹo sô-cô-la của tôi không , nhưng em lại nhớ năm phát hành của từng bài hát trên iPod của tôi , các cuộc nói chuyện giữa chúng tôi từ em mới bốn tuổi , tè lên tay của tôi vào ngày Teletubbies lên sóng tập đầu tiên , và sinh nhật của Lady Gaga .
response: He doesn &apos;t remember if he stole my chocolate bar , but he remembers the year of release for every song on my iPod , conversations we had when he was four , weeing on my arm on the first ever episode of Teletubbies , and Lady Gaga &apos;s birthday .
infer: I don &apos;t remember whether I &apos;m UNK my UNK candy , but I &apos;m going to talk about the UNK of my UNK , UNK on my hand on the UNK stage , and the birth of the UNK UNK UNK . 
beam: I don &apos;t remember whether I &apos;m going to UNK my UNK candy , but I &apos;ve got my hand UNK on my side list to the first wave of my UNK UNK ceremony , and my UNK &apos;s birthday . 

post: Những chuyện này nghe thật tuyệt vời phải không ?
response: Don &apos;t they sound incredible ?
infer: These stories are absolutely amazing ? 
beam: These stories are absolutely amazing ? 

post: Nhưng hầu hết mọi người không đồng ý .
response: But most people don &apos;t agree .
infer: But most people disagree . 
beam: But most people disagree . 

post: Và thực tế là vì tâm trí của các em tôi không phù hợp với phiên bản xã hội bình thường , các em thường bị cho qua và hiểu lầm .
response: And in fact , because their minds don &apos;t fit into society &apos;s version of normal , they &apos;re often bypassed and misunderstood .
infer: And the fact that , in fact , because of my mind , I don &apos;t fit up with the conventional UNK version , the children are UNK and educated . 
beam: And the fact that , in fact , because of my mind , I don &apos;t fit up with the conventional UNK version , the children are UNK and educated . 

post: Nhưng điều khiến trái tim tôi nhẹ nhõm hơn và tâm hồn tôi mạnh mẽ hơn là rằng , mặc dù điều này là đúng , dù các em không được coi là bình thường , điều này chỉ có thể có nghĩa rằng : các em thật phi thường -- người tự kỉ và người phi thường .
response: But what lifted my heart and strengthened my soul was that even though this was the case , although they were not seen as ordinary , this could only mean one thing : that they were extraordinary -- autistic and extraordinary .
infer: But the heart I got more UNK though , though , the world was just to say , even though they were not supposed to be normal , which would have meant that the things were extraordinary -- autistic people and the other people . 
beam: But what makes my heart more so stronger is that , although this is true , even if they don &apos;t see it as normal , which can only mean that they are extraordinary -- autistic people . 

post: Với các bạn không quen lắm với cụm từ &apos; tự kỉ &apos; , nó là một rối loạn tổ hợp não bộ mà ảnh hưởng đến khả năng giao tiếp xã hội , học tập và đôi khi những kỷ năng về thể chất .
response: Now , for you who may be less familiar with the term &quot; autism , &quot; it &apos;s a complex brain disorder that affects social communication , learning and sometimes physical skills .
infer: Now , not very often , with phrases , it &apos;s a UNK brain that influences social ability to social UNK , learning and sometimes on our physical age . 
beam: Now , you don &apos;t get to mind with the phrase &quot; UNK , &quot; it &apos;s a UNK brain that influences social ability to social UNK , learning and sometimes on our physical age . 

post: Triệu chứng bệnh ở mỗi cá nhân một khác , đó là lý do tại sao Remi là rất khác Sam .
response: It manifests in each individual differently , hence why Remi is so different from Sam .
infer: The UNK UNK of the individual is a different one , so that &apos;s why UNK is very different . 
beam: The UNK UNK in every individual , that &apos;s why UNK is very different . 

post: Và trên toàn thế giới , cứ 20 phút lại có thêm một người được chẩn đoán mắc chứng tự kỷ , và mặc dù nó là một trong những chứng rối loạn phát triển với tốc độ nhanh nhất trên thế giới , ta không rõ nguyên nhân hoặc cách chữa trị .
response: And across the world , every 20 minutes , one new person is diagnosed with autism , and although it &apos;s one of the fastest-growing developmental disorders in the world , there is no known cause or cure .
infer: And around the world , just over 20 minutes have one person that has a diagnosis of autism or even a UNK , and even though it &apos;s one of the fastest UNK UNK that we have , you know , UNK or cure . 
beam: And around the world , just over 20 minutes have one person that &apos;s diagnosed with autism , and even though it &apos;s one of the fastest developmental problems with the fastest pace in the world , you don &apos;t know either or UNK . 

post: Và tôi không thể nhớ thời điểm đầu tiên tôi tiếp cận với chứng tự kỷ , nhưng tôi không thể nhớ một ngày mà không có nó .
response: And I cannot remember the first moment I encountered autism , but I cannot recall a day without it .
infer: And I couldn &apos;t remember the first time I &apos;d ever had autism , but I couldn &apos;t remember one day without any one day . 
beam: And I couldn &apos;t remember the early time of autism , but I couldn &apos;t remember one day without any one day . 

post: Tôi mới ba tuổi khi em tôi ra đời và tôi đã vô cùng phấn khích rằng có thêm một người mới trong đời .
response: I was just three years old when my brother came along , and I was so excited that I had a new being in my life .
infer: I was three when my sister came along and I was extremely excited that there were more than one in my life . 
beam: I was three years old when my sister died , and I was extremely excited that there were more than one in my life . 

post: Và sau một vài tháng , tôi nhận ra rằng em khác biệt .
response: And after a few months went by , I realized that he was different .
infer: And after a few months , I realized that I was a different kid . 
beam: And after a few months , I realized that I was different . 

post: Em la hét nhiều .
response: He screamed a lot .
infer: You &apos;re screaming . 
beam: You &apos;re screaming . 

post: Em không muốn chơi đùa như các em bé khác , và trong thực tế , em có vẻ chẳng thích thú gì đến tôi hay điều gì khác hết .
response: He didn &apos;t want to play like the other babies did , and in fact , he didn &apos;t seem very interested in me whatsoever .
infer: I didn &apos;t want to play like the other girls , and in fact , I didn &apos;t seem to be interested in me or something else . 
beam: I don &apos;t want to play like a kid , and in fact , I don &apos;t seem to be interested in me or something else . 

post: Remi sống và ngự trị trong thế giới của riêng mình , với quy tắc riêng của mình , và em thấy niềm vui trong những điều nhỏ nhặt nhất , như là xếp ô tô quanh phòng và nhìn chằm chằm vào cái máy giặt và ăn bất cứ thứ gì trong tầm tay .
response: Remi lived and reigned in his own world , with his own rules , and he found pleasure in the smallest things , like lining up cars around the room and staring at the washing machine and eating anything that came in between .
infer: UNK live and UNK in your own world , with their own rules , and she sees the most UNK of all the most UNK things , like putting a UNK around the room and staring at the washing machine and eat everything in your hands . 
beam: UNK live and UNK in your own world , with their own rules , and she sees the most UNK of all the most UNK things , like putting the car around the room and staring at the washing machine and eat everything in your hands . 

post: Khi lớn lên , em trở nên càng khác biệt , và sự khác biệt trở nên rõ ràng hơn .
response: And as he grew older , he grew more different , and the differences became more obvious .
infer: As a child came , she became more different , and the difference was clearly . 
beam: As a child came , she became more different , and the difference was clearly . 

post: Nhưng ngoài cơn phẫn nộ và bực dọc và việc hiếu động thái quá không ngơi nghỉ là một điều gì đó thực sự độc đáo : một bản năng thuần khiết và ngây thơ , một cậu bé nhìn cuộc đời không chút định kiến , một con người không bao giờ nói dối .
response: Yet beyond the tantrums and the frustration and the never-ending hyperactivity was something really unique : a pure and innocent nature , a boy who saw the world without prejudice , a human who had never lied .
infer: But UNK and UNK knowledge is something that UNK is something that unique unique : a pure instinct , UNK , UNK , UNK life , a UNK UNK who never spoke to a UNK . 
beam: But with the UNK and the UNK and the UNK of behavior , it was something that was unique : a pure instinct , UNK , a boy who took a little bit of a UNK , a UNK person . 

post: Phi thường .
response: Extraordinary .
infer: Africa . 
beam: Africa . 

post: Chà , tôi không thể phủ nhận rằng đã có một vài khoảnh khắc khó khăn trong gia đình tôi , những khoảnh khắc tôi ước ao các em cũng giống như mình .
response: Now , I cannot deny that there have been some challenging moments in my family , moments where I &apos;ve wished that they were just like me .
infer: Well , I can &apos;t deny that there were a little bit of hard moments in my family , but moments I &apos;d estimated for my day all the time . 
beam: Well , I can &apos;t deny that there were a little bit of hard moments in my family , the moments that I wanted to do with my friends . 

post: Nhưng tôi đưa kí ức mình quay trở lại những điều các em đã dạy tôi về tính cách , lối giao tiếp và tình yêu và tôi nhận ra rằng đây là những điều mà tôi sẽ chẳng đánh đổi để lấy sự bình thường .
response: But I cast my mind back to the things that they &apos;ve taught me about individuality and communication and love , and I realize that these are things that I wouldn &apos;t want to change with normality .
infer: But I &apos;ve come to get back to the things that I taught me about how , and the UNK approach and the love , and I realized that this was some sort of thing I was going to do not change to get normal . 
beam: But I &apos;ve come to get back to the things that I taught me about how to do , how to communicate , and love and I realized that this is something that I would not UNK to get normal . 

post: Sự bình thường bỏ lỡ vẻ đẹp mà sự khác biệt ban cho chúng ta và việc chúng ta khác nhau không có nghĩa là một trong ta có điều gì không ổn
response: Normality overlooks the beauty that differences give us , and the fact that we are different doesn &apos;t mean that one of us is wrong .
infer: UNK UNK is something that different , and yet , is that we have something that &apos;s going to work in the wrong way . 
beam: UNK UNK is something very different about us , and whether we don &apos;t really mean that anything in us ? 

post: Nó chỉ có nghĩa là có một loại &apos; đúng &apos; khác mà thôi .
response: It just means that there &apos;s a different kind of right .
infer: It &apos;s only a sort of a &quot; error &quot; error . 
beam: It just means that there is another type of error . 

post: Và nếu tôi chỉ có thể truyền đạt một điều cho Remi và cho Sam và cho các bạn , điều đó là bạn không bắt buộc phải bình thường .
response: And if I could communicate just one thing to Remi and to Sam and to you , it would be that you don &apos;t have to be normal .
infer: And if I can just pass one for you , if you can do something for UNK and for Sam , for you , that &apos;s that you don &apos;t make a normal force . 
beam: And if I can just pass one UNK and give up for you , that &apos;s that you don &apos;t make a normal force . 

post: Bạn có thể phi thường .
response: You can be extraordinary .
infer: You can do extraordinary . 
beam: You may be extraordinary . 

post: Vì có mắc chứng tự kỷ hay không , sự khác biệt giữa chúng ta -- Chúng ta có một món quà ! Ai cũng mang trong mình một món quà , và thật lòng mà nói , theo đuổi cái bình thường chính là hi sinh tiềm năng lớn nhất .
response: Because autistic or not , the differences that we have -- We &apos;ve got a gift ! Everyone &apos;s got a gift inside of us , and in all honesty , the pursuit of normality is the ultimate sacrifice of potential .
infer: UNK disease , a difference between us -- We have a gift ! Everyone &apos;s got us a gift , and in fact , in pursuit of the normal , is the greatest potential of potential . 
beam: For autism , for autism or not , for the difference between us -- We have a gift ! Everyone is carrying in us a gift , and in fact , in pursuit of the normal , is the greatest potential of potential . 

post: Cơ hội cho sự vĩ đại , tiến bộ và cho sự thay đổi bị dập tắt khi ta cố gắng trở nên giống như một người khác .
response: The chance for greatness , for progress and for change dies the moment we try to be like someone else .
infer: Our big UNK , progress and our change for UNK when we try to be like another human being . 
beam: Our big UNK , progress and our change for UNK when we try to be more like another human being . 

post: Xin -- đừng nói rằng tôi bình thường .
response: Please -- don &apos;t tell me I &apos;m normal .
infer: Hi -- don &apos;t tell me that I am normal . 
beam: Please -- don &apos;t tell me that I was normal . 

post: Cảm ơn bạn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Có lẽ các bạn đều đồng ý với tôi đây là một con đường rất đẹp .
response: You probably all agree with me that this is a very nice road .
infer: You would agree with me that it &apos;s a very beautiful route . 
beam: You would agree with me that it &apos;s a very beautiful route . 

post: Nó được xây dựng từ nhựa đường , và nhựa đường là loại vật liệu xe mà chạy trên nó thì rất êm. nhưng không phải lúc nào cũng được vậy , đặc biệt không phải vào những ngày này như hôm nay khi trời đang mưa nhiều .
response: It &apos;s made of asphalt , and asphalt is a very nice material to drive on , but not always , especially not on these days as today , when it &apos;s raining a lot .
infer: It &apos;s built from UNK UNK , and the UNK is a material that runs on it very well , but it &apos;s not always true , especially in these days as this is when the sun is producing a lot of rain . 
beam: It &apos;s built from the UNK UNK , and it &apos;s the sort of material that runs on it very well , but not always the way , especially in those days as it is today for rain . 

post: Rồi bạn có thể bị nước trên đường văng tung toé .
response: Then you can have a lot of splash water in the asphalt .
infer: Then you can get water on a UNK UNK . 
beam: Then you can get water on a UNK UNK . 

post: Và đặc biệt nếu như bạn đạp xe đạp , và vượt qua những chiếc xe hơi này thì thật không hay .
response: And especially if you then ride with your bicycle , and pass these cars , then that &apos;s not very nice .
infer: And especially if you take a bike and walk through those wheels , real , real cars . 
beam: And especially , if you bicycle your bike , and through those cars , it isn &apos;t good . 

post: Ngoài ra , nhựa đường cũng gây ra nhiều tiếng ồn .
response: Also , asphalt can create a lot of noise .
infer: UNK , it also creates a lot of noise . 
beam: Also , the sugar is also UNK . 

post: Nó là vật liệu gây ồn , Nếu chúng ta làm những con đường như của Hà Lan , rất gần với các đô thị , chúng ta muốn một con đường yên tĩnh .
response: It &apos;s a noisy material , and if we produce roads like in the Netherlands , very close to cities , then we would like a silent road .
infer: It &apos;s UNK materials , if we do the streets of the Netherlands , for very much as cities , we want a UNK route . 
beam: It &apos;s a UNK material , if we do the streets of the Netherlands , a lot near the UNK , we want an UNK road . 

post: Giải pháp cho vấn đề là làm những con đường từ nhựa đường xốp .
response: The solution for that is to make roads out of porous asphalt .
infer: The solution for the problem is to build sugar from UNK . 
beam: The solution for the problem is to make sugar sugar roads . 

post: Nhựa đường xốp là vật liệu chúng tôi hiện đang dùng để xây dựng hầu hết các quốc lộ ở Hà Lan , Nó có lỗ thấm và nước chỉ thấm xuyên qua lỗ. vì vậy tất cả nước mưa sẽ thoát ra mọi phía , và bạn sẽ có một con đường thuận tiện để lái xe . Vì vậy không còn lõm bõm nước nữa .
response: Porous asphalt , a material that we use now in most of the highways in the Netherlands , it has pores and water can just rain through it , so all the rainwater will flow away to the sides , and you have a road that &apos;s easy to drive on , so no splash water anymore .
infer: UNK carbon dioxide is that we &apos;re using the left of the UNK , and it has its UNK and its water UNK through — so all the UNK don &apos;t get out and out there , and you have a UNK road to drive , so they &apos;re not
beam: UNK road is the material that we &apos;ve been spending , and we &apos;re going to build , and we &apos;re going to build , and we &apos;re going to build , and we &apos;re going to build , and we &apos;re going to build , so we &apos;re going

post: và tiếng ồn cũng biến mất qua lỗ thấm .
response: Also the noise will disappear in these pores .
infer: It is also disappeared through UNK . 
beam: It is also disappeared through UNK . 

post: Bởi vì nó rất rỗng , tất cả tiếng ồn sẽ biến mất , vì thế mà con đường rất yên tĩnh .
response: Because it &apos;s very hollow , all the noise will disappear , so it &apos;s a very silent road .
infer: Because it &apos;s very UNK , all the noise will disappear , so it &apos;s a very quiet route . 
beam: Because it &apos;s very UNK , all the noise is going to disappear , so that &apos;s very quiet . 

post: Đương nhiên vẫn còn nhiều bất tiện , và điều bất tiện của loại đường này là tình trạng nứt nẻ , bong tróc có thể xảy ra .
response: It also has disadvantages , of course , and the disadvantage of this road is that raveling can occur .
infer: Of course , the UNK is still UNK , and the UNK of this kind is a UNK , that &apos;s really UNK , and this is possible . 
beam: There &apos;s still a lot of UNK , and the UNK of this comes is that UNK , the UNK can happen . 

post: Bong nứt là gì ? Bạn thấy đó trên con đường này đá lớp mặt bị bong tróc .
response: What is raveling ? You see that in this road that the stones at the surface come off .
infer: What &apos;s the hell ? You see on this path UNK the surface of UNK . 
beam: What &apos;s the hell ? You see on this path , UNK UNK . 

post: Trước tiên bạn được một hòn đá , rồi nhiều hơn , rồi ngày càng nhiều , nhiều , nhiều , nhiều hơn nữa , và rồi chúng - - kìa , tôi sẽ không làm như vậy đâu .
response: First you get one stone , then several more , and more and more and more and more , and then they -- well , I will not do that .
infer: First , you get a rock , then there &apos;s more , and then a lot , many , many , no more , and then they — — See , I &apos;m not going to be doing it . 
beam: First , you get a rock , and then there &apos;s more , and there &apos;s a lot , a lot more , it &apos;s a lot more , and it &apos;s -- -- oh , I wouldn &apos;t do it . 

post: Nhưng chúng có thể làm hư cửa kính xe hơi của bạn . Vì vậy bạn không vui với điều đó .
response: But they can damage your windshield , so you &apos;re not happy with that .
infer: But they can UNK your UNK . So you are not happy with that . 
beam: But they can erase your UNK . So you &apos;re not happy with that . 

post: Và sau cùng , tình trạng bong nứt này sẽ gây hư hỏng ngày càng nhiều .
response: And finally , this raveling can also lead to more and more damage .
infer: And after all , the UNK will fail the next day . 
beam: And , after all , this sort of UNK is going to fail the other day . 

post: Đôi khi chúng tạo nên các ổ gà .
response: Sometimes you can create potholes with that .
infer: Sometimes they make a chicken . 
beam: Sometimes they make a chicken . 

post: À . Anh ta đang sẵn sàng .
response: Ha . He &apos;s ready .
infer: Well . He &apos;s ready . 
beam: Well , he &apos;s ready . 

post: Ổ gà , đương nhiên , có thể trở thành một vấn đề , Nhưng chúng tôi có giải pháp .
response: Potholes , of course , that can become a problem , but we have a solution .
infer: UNK , of course , could be a problem , but we had solutions . 
beam: UNK , of course , could be a problem , but we had solutions . 

post: Thật sự như bạn thấy ở đây vật liệu này có dấu hiệu bị hư hại ra sao .
response: Here you see actually how the damage appears in this material .
infer: Well , it turns out that you see here this stuff actually has a UNK footprint . 
beam: That &apos;s actually what you see here , this little UNK footprint . 

post: Nó là nhựa xốp , như tôi đã nói , bạn chỉ có một lượng nhỏ keo dính bám giữa các viên đá .
response: It &apos;s a porous asphalt , like I said , so you have only a small amount of binder between the stones .
infer: It &apos;s UNK , as I said , you have tiny UNK UNK between the stones . 
beam: It &apos;s UNK , as I said , you have tiny UNK UNK between the stones . 

post: Dưới tác động của thời tiết , bức xạ mặt trời , tình trạng oxy hoá chất nhựa này , nhựa bitum này chất keo dính giữa các khối kết tập này sẽ co lại , và nếu co lại , nó sẽ có những khe nứt cực nhỏ. rồi tróc ra khỏi các khối kết tập .
response: Due to weathering , due to U.V. light , due to oxidation , this binder , this bitumen , the glue between the aggregates is going to shrink , and if it shrinks , it gets micro-cracks , and it delaminates from the aggregates .
infer: UNK the surface of weather , the UNK , the UNK , the UNK , the UNK -- the UNK -- the UNK -- the UNK -- the UNK -- the UNK -- and if you close it , it &apos;ll have these UNK UNK that comes out of the
beam: UNK the surface of weather , the UNK , the UNK , the UNK , the UNK , the UNK -- the UNK -- the result would contract again , and if you UNK it , it would have these UNK UNK that came out of the connections . 

post: Rồi nếu lái xe lên chỗ đường đó , bạn sẽ phá huỷ những khối kết tập này -- như chúng ta vừa thấy ở đây .
response: Then if you drive over the road , you take out the aggregates -- what we just saw here .
infer: And if you drive that path , you can break these little cubes -- as we just saw here . 
beam: And if you drive your car up there , you can break these UNK -- as we just saw here . 

post: Để giải quyết vấn đề này , chúng tôi đã chế tạo ra những vật liệu tự hàn gắn .
response: To solve this problem , we thought of self-healing materials .
infer: To solve that , we built the materials for UNK materials . 
beam: In order to address this problem , we produced a UNK materials . 

post: Nếu chúng tôi tạo ra được vật liệu tự hàn gắn này , thì chúng tôi có thể tìm ra giải pháp .
response: If we can make this material self-healing , then probably we have a solution .
infer: If we created this UNK materials , we could find solutions . 
beam: If we created this UNK materials , we could find solutions . 

post: Những gì chúng tôi có thể làm là dùng miếng bùi nhùi bằng thép dành để chùi rửa xoong . Và chúng tôi cắt vụn miếng bùi nhùi thép ra thật nhỏ , và chúng tôi trộn các mảnh vụn nhỏ này với nhựa bitum .
response: So what we can do is use steel wool just to clean pans , and the steel wool we can cut in very small pieces , and these very small pieces we can mix to the bitumen .
infer: What we could do is we took UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK , and we &apos;re cutting UNK UNK , and we &apos;re UNK UNK UNK of steel with steel UNK , and we UNK this little UNK UNK with plastic UNK . 
beam: What we could do is we took UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK , and we &apos;ve slice out of UNK UNK trees , and we UNK these little pieces together with plastic UNK . 

post: Vậy là chúng ta có nhựa đường trộn với những vụn thép rất nhỏ .
response: So then you have asphalt with very small pieces of steel wool in it .
infer: So we have plastic UNK with very small UNK . 
beam: So we have plastic UNK with very small UNK . 

post: Rồi bạn cần một cái máy , như bạn thấy ở đây , là máy dùng để nấu ăn -- một máy cảm ứng từ .
response: Then you need a machine , like you see here , that you can use for cooking -- an induction machine .
infer: So you need a machine , you can see here , it &apos;s used to cook -- a UNK UNK . 
beam: So you need a machine , as you can see here , it &apos;s used to cook -- a UNK device . 

post: Cảm ứng từ có thể tạo nhiệt , đặc biệt thép lại dẫn nhiệt rất tốt .
response: Induction can heat , especially steel ; it &apos;s very good at that .
infer: UNK can be UNK , UNK UNK UNK . 
beam: UNK can be UNK , UNK UNK UNK . 

post: Những việc các bạn làm là đun nóng thép , bạn làm chảy nhựa bitum , và nhựa bitum sẽ chảy vào các kẽ nứt siêu nhỏ này , và các viên đá sẽ kết dính lên lớp mặt trở lại .
response: Then what you do is you heat up the steel , you melt the bitumen , and the bitumen will flow into these micro-cracks , and the stones are again fixed to the surface .
infer: What you do is UNK up UNK , you make the plastic UNK , and the plastic UNK will roll in these little cracks , and the stones UNK the layers up again . 
beam: What you do is UNK up UNK , you make the plastic UNK , and the plastic UNK will roll in these little cracks , and the stones then UNK up the UNK . 

post: Hôm nay tôi dùng một lò vi sóng vì tôi không thể đem cái máy cảm ứng từ cồng kềnh lên sân khấu được .
response: Today I use a microwave because I cannot take the big induction machine here onstage .
infer: I use a UNK because I can &apos;t bring a UNK from a UNK from a stage . 
beam: Today I use a UNK because I can &apos;t bring a UNK from a UNK from a stage . 

post: Lò vi sóng cũng có hệ thống hoạt động tương tự .
response: So a microwave is a similar system .
infer: UNK have a similar network of UNK . 
beam: UNK is also in the same way . 

post: Tôi đã để vật mẫu vào lò , giờ tôi sẽ lấy nó ra. để kiểm tra xem nó ra sao .
response: So I put the specimen in , which I &apos;m now going to take out to see what happened .
infer: I &apos;ve been putting in UNK , and now I &apos;m going to take it UNK to test how it is . 
beam: So , I put my samples into this UNK , and now I &apos;ll take it UNK to test how it looked . 

post: Đây là vật mẫu được lấy ra .
response: So this is the specimen coming out now .
infer: Here &apos;s the pattern that came out . 
beam: Here &apos;s the pattern that came out . 

post: Tôi đã nói chúng tôi phát minh ra một cái máy công nghiệp như trên tại phòng thí nghiệm. để đun nóng các vật mẫu .
response: So I said we have such an industrial machine in the lab to heat up the specimens .
infer: I told us , we invented a factory like in the UNK UNK to boil up the UNK . 
beam: I told us that we invented a factory like up in the UNK , to UNK off the UNK . 

post: Tại phòng thí nghiệm chúng tôi đã thử qua nhiều mẫu , và rồi chính phủ , họ đã thực sự nhìn thấy kết quả. và họ cho rằng : &quot; À , cách đó hay lắm . Chúng ta phải thử xem sao . &quot;
response: We tested a lot of specimens there , and then the government , they actually saw our results , and they thought , &quot; Well , that &apos;s very interesting . We have to try that . &quot;
infer: And in the laboratory we &apos;ve tried many pieces , and then the government , they &apos;ve actually seen UNK and they say , &quot; Oh , that &apos;s a great thing . Let &apos;s try out . &quot; 
beam: And in the laboratory that we &apos;ve tried , and then the government , they &apos;ve actually seen UNK and they say , &quot; Well , that &apos;s great . We need to measure . &quot; 

post: Rồi họ giao cho chúng tôi một đoạn đường quốc lộ , dài 400 mét thuộc quốc lộ A58 , tại đây chúng tôi phải xây một đoạn đường thử nghiệm vật liệu mới này .
response: So they donated to us a piece of highway , 400 meters of the A58 , where we had to make a test track to test this material .
infer: Then they give us a UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK UNK , so we have to build a whole new UNK of this thing . 
beam: Then they give us a UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK UNK , so we have to build a kind of UNK UNK route . 

post: Vậy là đó là điều chúng tôi đã thực hiện tại đây . Bạn xem con đường thử nghiệm chúng tôi đã làm , và rồi đương nhiên con đường này sẽ tồn tại được trong nhiều năm mà không bị hư hại nào . Đó là những gì chúng tôi học từ thực nghiệm .
response: So that &apos;s what we did here . You see where we were making the test road , and then of course this road will last several years without any damage . That &apos;s what we know from practice .
infer: So that &apos;s what we &apos;ve done . You look at the test that we did , and then of course this one path in many years without any damage , and that &apos;s what we learned from the experiment . 
beam: So that &apos;s actually what we &apos;ve done . You look at the test that we did , and then of course this UNK will survive over many years without any harmed , and that &apos;s what we learned from the experiment . 

post: Chúng tôi đã lấy nhiều mẫu vật từ con đường này và chúng tôi thử chúng trong phòng thí nghiệm .
response: So we took a lot of samples from this road and we tested them in the lab .
infer: We &apos;ve taken samples of samples from this path , and we &apos;ve tried them in the lab . 
beam: We &apos;ve taken samples from this path , and we test them in the lab . 

post: Vậy là chúng tôi già hoá mẫu vật , đặt nhiều tải trọng lên nó , kết dính chúng lại bằng máy cảm ứng từ , hàn gắn chúng lại và rồi thử chúng lần nữa .
response: So we did aging on the samples , did a lot of loading on it , healed them with our induction machine , and healed them and tested them again .
infer: So we UNK the animals , put it up to them , UNK them by sensors , UNK them together and try them again . 
beam: So we UNK the animals , we put a lot on it , we UNK it with sensors , UNK them together and try them again . 

post: Chúng tôi có thể làm đi làm lại nhiều lần như vậy .
response: Several times we can repeat that .
infer: We can do it again and again . 
beam: We can do it again and again . 

post: Và thật sự , kết luận đưa ra từ nghiên cứu này là nếu chúng tôi bảo dưỡng con đường 4 năm một lần bằng máy hàn gắn -- đây là phiên bản kích thước lớn chúng tôi đã chế tạo nó để bảo dưỡng đường thật -- Nếu cứ 4 năm chúng tôi bảo dưỡng con đường một lần thì chúng tôi có thể làm tăng gấp đôi tuổi thọ lớp mặt của con đường. dĩ nhiên sẽ tiết kiệm được nhiều tiền .
response: So actually , the conclusion from this research is that if we go on the road every four years with our healing machine -- this is the big version we have made to go on the real road -- if we go on the road every four years we can double the surface life of this road , which of course saves a lot of money .
infer: And indeed , the conclusion came from this study was that if we UNK it to -- if we UNK it up to the fact -- if we were UNK the fact that we were going to raise the UNK UNK UNK of the UNK , of course they would
beam: And actually , the conclusion came from this study was that if we UNK it to -- if we were to UNK the fact a UNK road , we could increase the UNK UNK span of the UNK , of course they would save a lot of money . 

post: À , để đúc kết lại , tôi có thể nói rằng chúng tôi đã tạo ra một loại vật liệu sử dụng sợi thép , thêm vào sợi thép , sử dụng nhiệt lượng từ , để thực sự giúp gia tăng tuổi thọ của mặt đường , Gấp đôi tuổi thọ mặt đường là việc mà ngay cả bạn cũng làm được , Tăng gấp đôi tuổi thọ mặt đường bằng những thủ thuật rất đơn giản.sẽ giúp tiết kiệm được nhiều tiền .
response: Well , to conclude , I can say that we made a material using steel fibers , the addition of steel fibers , using induction energy to really increase the surface life of the road , double the surface life you can even do , so it will really save a lot of money with very simple tricks .
infer: UNK , if I &apos;m UNK , I would say that we &apos;ve made a piece of UNK materials , adding to the iron , to UNK the UNK , so that &apos;s the UNK UNK of the road , and the UNK is also the UNK that are UNK
beam: UNK , if I &apos;m UNK , I would say that we &apos;ve made a piece of UNK materials , adding to the steel , and we can say that we &apos;ve made a UNK material , UNK UNK , and we can say that we &apos;ve made a UNK

post: Bây giờ chắc các bạn đang thắc mắc liệu nó có hiệu quả hay không .
response: And now you &apos;re of course curious if it also worked .
infer: Now you might ask if it might work . 
beam: Now you &apos;re wondering if it doesn &apos;t work . 

post: Chúng tôi còn vật mẫu ở đây . Nó còn khá ấm .
response: So we still have the specimen here . It &apos;s quite warm .
infer: We &apos;re here . It &apos;s also a warm . 
beam: We &apos;re here . It &apos;s quite a warm . 

post: Lẽ ra phải để cho nó nguội bớt trước rồi tôi mới cho bạn thấy hiệu quả của liệu pháp hàn gắn ,
response: Actually , it still has to cool down first before I can show you that the healing works .
infer: It was supposed to have to fit it down before I gave you what the effect was for UNK . 
beam: It was supposed to have a UNK before , and then I gave you the effects of UNK therapy . 

post: Nhưng để tôi thử xem .
response: But I will do a trial .
infer: But let me try . 
beam: But let me try . 

post: Xem nè . Vâng , nó dính .
response: Let &apos;s see . Yeah , it worked .
infer: Watch it . Yes , it sticks . 
beam: Watch it . Yes , it sticks . 

post: Xin cám ơn
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Hôm nay tôi đến đây để nói về một câu hỏi bối rối mà câu trả lời cũng gấy bối rối không kém .
response: I &apos;m here today to talk about a disturbing question , which has an equally disturbing answer .
infer: So I &apos;m here to talk about a question that the answer is also UNK . 
beam: I &apos;m here today to talk about a question that the answer is also UNK . 

post: Chủ đề là bí mật của bạo lực gia đình , và câu hỏi tôi đặt ra là câu hỏi mà mọi người luôn thắc mắc : Tại sao cô ấy ở lại ?
response: My topic is the secrets of domestic violence , and the question I &apos;m going to tackle is the one question everyone always asks : Why does she stay ?
infer: UNK is the secret of the violence violence , and the question I ask is that the question that people always ask : Why did her have been here ? 
beam: UNK is the secret of the violence violence , and the question I ask is the question that people always ask : Why did her leave up ? 

post: Tại sao người phụ nữ lại nên ở lại với người đã đánh họ ?
response: Why would anyone stay with a man who beats her ?
infer: Why should women have been making them all stay up with them ? 
beam: Why should anyone get women to be who ? 

post: Tôi không phải là một bác sĩ tâm thần , không phải một người làm công tác xã hội hay một chuyên gia về bạo lực gia đình .
response: I &apos;m not a psychiatrist , a social worker or an expert in domestic violence .
infer: I &apos;m not a psychopath doctor who , not a social worker or a professional expert . 
beam: I &apos;m not a psychiatrist , not a social worker worker or a professional expert . 

post: Tôi chỉ là một người phụ nữ muốn chia sẻ câu chuyện của mình
response: I &apos;m just one woman with a story to tell .
infer: I &apos;m only a woman who wants to share their story . 
beam: I &apos;m only a woman who wants to share their story . 

post: Khi đó tôi 22 tuổi , vừa tốt nghiệp trường Cao đẳng Harvard
response: I was 22 . I had just graduated from Harvard College .
infer: And I was 22 years old , and I was graduated from Harvard College . 
beam: I was 22 years old , and I was graduated from Harvard College . 

post: Tôi chuyển đến thành phố New York khi làm công việc đầu tiên viết và biên tập cho tạp chí Seventeen .
response: I had moved to New York City for my first job as a writer and editor at Seventeen magazine .
infer: I moved to New York City when I was in my first job , and I UNK . 
beam: I moved to New York City when I gave up my first job of writing and UNK . 

post: Lần đầu tiên tôi có căn hộ , thẻ tín dụng American Express của riêng mình , và tôi đã có bí mật lớn .
response: I had my first apartment , my first little green American Express card , and I had a very big secret .
infer: I was the first time that I had my body , my own UNK Express , and I had a big fortune . 
beam: For the first time , I had my own body , my own UNK Express , and I had a big fortune . 

post: Bí mật đó là , cây súng này được nạp sẵn đạn hollow-point chỉa thẳng vào đầu tôi bởi người đàn ông tôi đã nghĩ là người bạn đời , từ lần này qua lần khác .
response: My secret was that I had this gun loaded with hollow-point bullets pointed at my head by the man who I thought was my soulmate , many , many times .
infer: It &apos;s UNK UNK UNK in my head that UNK the gentleman in my head because the man was thought of a partner in a lifetime , from this time . 
beam: The secret is , this gun was filled in UNK straight in my head because the man who I thought was a partner , and since this time . 

post: Người đàn ông tôi đã yêu hơn tất cả mọi người chỉa súng vào đầu và doạ giết chết tôi biết bao lần mà tôi không còn nhớ được hết .
response: The man who I loved more than anybody on Earth held a gun to my head and threatened to kill me more times than I can even remember .
infer: My gentleman was much more in a place in a UNK than everyone -- and the death of death , I knew that I knew that I knew that I was going to remember the end of my time . 
beam: My gentleman was much in love with this guy who was in love , and the death of death , I knew that I knew that I was going to remember it . 

post: Tôi đến đây để kể cho bạn về tình yêu điên rồ , một cái bẫy tâm lý được nguỵ trang dưới lớp vỏ tình yêu mà hàng triệu phụ nữ và thậm chí một số đàn ông gắp phải mỗi năm .
response: I &apos;m here to tell you the story of crazy love , a psychological trap disguised as love , one that millions of women and even a few men fall into every year .
infer: I came here to tell you about romantic love , a UNK trap UNK in love that millions of women and even a UNK man . 
beam: I &apos;m here to tell you about romantic love , a UNK trap UNK that millions of women and even a UNK need to every year . 

post: Đây có thể là câu chuyện của bạn .
response: It may even be your story .
infer: This could be your story . 
beam: This could be your story . 

post: Tôi không giống môt nhà tư vấn bạo lực gia đình .
response: I don &apos;t look like a typical domestic violence survivor .
infer: I &apos;m not a family &apos;s UNK UNK . 
beam: I don &apos;t look like a domestic domestic UNK . 

post: Tôi có bằng cử nhân Tiếng Anh từ trường Cao đẳng Harvard , và Quản trị kinh doanh marketing từ trường kinh doanh Wharton .
response: I have a B.A. in English from Harvard College , an MBA in marketing from Wharton Business School .
infer: I had the UNK UNK from Harvard School , and it was a business by UNK UNK business . 
beam: I had the UNK UNK from Harvard College School , and the business business was from the UNK business school . 

post: Tôi đã dàng hết sự nghiệp làm việc cho những công ty trong top 500 của Mỹ như Johnson &amp; amp ; Johnson , Leo Burnett và Thời báo Washington .
response: I &apos;ve spent most of my career working for Fortune 500 companies including Johnson &amp; amp ; Johnson , Leo Burnett and The Washington Post .
infer: I &apos;ve been UNK career working to companies in the 500 of America , like the M &amp; amp ; UNK , Leo UNK , UNK UNK . 
beam: I &apos;ve just been working out of career work for companies in the UNK of America as UNK &amp; amp ; UNK , Leo UNK , UNK Washington . 

post: Tôi kết hôn với người chồng thứ hai đã gần 20 năm và có với nhau ba đứa trẻ .
response: I &apos;ve been married for almost 20 years to my second husband and we have three kids together .
infer: I married the second husband that are almost 20 years and three and four . 
beam: I &apos;m married to the second husband that have almost 20 years of 20 years and have three children . 

post: Con chó của tôi là giống Black Lab , và tôi lái chiếc Honda Odyssey minivan .
response: My dog is a black lab , and I drive a Honda Odyssey minivan .
infer: My dog &apos;s dog is like the Black UNK , and I drove an UNK UNK UNK . 
beam: My dog is like the Black UNK , and I drive UNK UNK UNK . 

post: Do vậy , điều đầu tiên tôi muốn nói với bạn là bạo lực gia đình xảy ra với tất cả mọi người mọi giới , mọi tôn giáo , mọi mức độ thu nhập và giáo dục .
response: So my first message for you is that domestic violence happens to everyone -- all races , all religions , all income and education levels .
infer: So , the first thing I want to tell you is that the family of family is happening with all the people , all the religion , all the UNK of UNK and education . 
beam: So , the first thing I want to tell you is that the family of family is happening with all the people , all the religion , all of their income and education . 

post: Nó xảy ra mọi nơi .
response: It &apos;s everywhere .
infer: It happens everywhere . 
beam: It happens everywhere . 

post: Và điều thứ hai tôi muốn nói là mọi người nghĩ rằng bạo lực gia đình xảy ra với phụ nữ , đó là vấn đề của phụ nữ .
response: And my second message is that everyone thinks domestic violence happens to women , that it &apos;s a women &apos;s issue .
infer: And the second thing I want to say is that people think of violence as a family of violence , it &apos;s women &apos;s problems . 
beam: And the second thing I want to say is that people think that domestic violence has happened to women , it &apos;s women &apos;s problems . 

post: Không đúng .
response: Not exactly .
infer: It &apos;s just not true . 
beam: It &apos;s just not true . 

post: Hơn 85 phần trăm kẻ bạo hành là đàn ông , và bạo lực gia đình xảy ra chỉ trong những mối quan hệ thân thiết , ràng buộc , lâu dài , nói cách khác , là trong gia đình , nơi cuối cùng chúng ta mong muốn hoặc trông chờ tìn thấy bạo lực đó là một lí do khiến bạo hành gia đình là vấn đề gây bối rối .
response: Over 85 percent of abusers are men , and domestic abuse happens only in intimate , interdependent , long-term relationships , in other words , in families , the last place we would want or expect to find violence , which is one reason domestic abuse is so confusing .
infer: UNK percent of the violence are men , and the violence has been on , and the family is , on the last relationship , we &apos;re going to say , in families , we &apos;re at the last place , and the UNK of this is that the UNK
beam: UNK percent of the UNK are men , and the violence has been on the UNK relationship , UNK , UNK , UNK , if we want or what we expect to look at that violence is a cause for UNK practice . 

post: Tôi đã tự nhủ bản thân mình , tôi là người còn lại trên trái đất chung sống với người đàn ông đã đánh mình , nhưng thật ra , tôi là một nạn nhân điển hình do độ tuổi của tôi .
response: I would have told you myself that I was the last person on Earth who would stay with a man who beats me , but in fact I was a very typical victim because of my age .
infer: I have myself to myself with myself , I &apos;m the other person on Earth with my own man who beat himself , but actually , I am a UNK of a UNK . 
beam: I had myself to myself with myself , I &apos;m the other person on Earth with men who beat me , but actually , I am an American victim . 

post: Tôi chỉ 22 tuổi , sống ở nước Mỹ , phụ nữ tuổi từ 16 đến 24 có nguy cơ gấp ba lần trở thành nạn nhân của bạo lực gia đình so với phụ nữ ở những độ tuổi khác , và trên 500 phụ nữ và các cô gái ở tuổi này bị giết mỗi năm bởi những kẻ tình nhân bạo hành , bạn trai , và chồng ở Mỹ
response: I was 22 , and in the United States , women ages 16 to 24 are three times as likely to be domestic violence victims as women of other ages , and over 500 women and girls this age are killed every year by abusive partners , boyfriends , and husbands in the United States .
infer: UNK , in the U.S. , UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK , women , women , women , UNK , killed every year by UNK , friends , and the UNK of the United States , and the UNK , the UNK , the U.S. 
beam: I &apos;m 22 years old , living in the United States , from 16 to 24 , a UNK UNK of violence in other ages , and on the age of women , and girls are killed every year by UNK , friends , and the UNK of the U.S.

post: Tôi cũng từng là một nạn nhân điển hình bởi tôi chẳng biết gì về bạo lực gia đình , những tín hiệu cảnh báo hay hình mẫu của nó
response: I was also a very typical victim because I knew nothing about domestic violence , its warning signs or its patterns .
infer: I am also a UNK because I have no idea of the violence , the warning UNK or the UNK . 
beam: I am also an American victim , because I don &apos;t know any UNK violence , UNK warning or UNK . 

post: Tôi đã gặp Conor trong một đêm tháng một , mưa và lạnh .
response: I met Conor on a cold , rainy January night .
infer: I met UNK in a UNK night , rain and cold . 
beam: I met UNK in a UNK night , rain and cold . 

post: Anh ta ngồi cạnh tôi trong đường hầm thành phố New york , và anh bắt chuyện với tôi .
response: He sat next to me on the New York City subway , and he started chatting me up .
infer: He sat next to me in the UNK of New UNK , and he started talking to me . 
beam: He sat next to me in the UNK of New UNK , and he started talking to me . 

post: Anh ta kể với tôi về hai thứ .
response: He told me two things .
infer: He told me about two things . 
beam: He told me about two things . 

post: Một là anh ta , cũng như tôi , vừa tốt nghiệp trường Ivy League và rằng anh ta làm việc tại một ngân hàng rất ấn tượng ở phố Wall
response: One was that he , too , had just graduated from an Ivy League school , and that he worked at a very impressive Wall Street bank .
infer: One is him , as I did , I just graduated from UNK College , and that he worked at a very animated bank in the Wall Street . 
beam: One is him , as I did , I just graduated from UNK College , and that he worked at a very animated bank in the Wall Street . 

post: Nhưng điều gây ấn tương nhất với tôi ở cuộc gặp gỡ đầu tiên là anh ta thông minh là vui tính và trông anh ta có vẻ một cậu nhóc nông dân .
response: But what made the biggest impression on me that first meeting was that he was smart and funny and he looked like a farm boy .
infer: But the most dramatic thing to me at the first meeting was that he was very UNK and he looked like he was a farmer farmer . 
beam: But the most dramatic thing for me was that he was smart , and he looked like he was a farmer farmer . 

post: Anh ta có đôi gò mà lớn thế này , đôi gò má hình trái táo lớn và mái tóc óng ả như cánh đồng lúa vàng và anh ta có vẻ rất ngọt ngào .
response: He had these big cheeks , these big apple cheeks and this wheat-blond hair , and he seemed so sweet .
infer: He has little UNK , he &apos;s UNK UNK UNK , and the UNK UNK and he feels so sweet . 
beam: He &apos;s got a little bit of things that size up , and the UNK are great , and the UNK UNK like a UNK and he seems very sweet . 

post: Một trong số điều thông minh nhất Conor đã làm , từ lúc mới bắt đầu , là tạo ra một ảo giác rằng tôi là đối tác quan hệ đầy hứa hẹn
response: One of the smartest things Conor did , from the very beginning , was to create the illusion that I was the dominant partner in the relationship .
infer: One of the smartest things that UNK did , since the beginning of the word , was to create a magician that I was a UNK relationship . 
beam: One of the smartest things that UNK did , since the beginning , was to create a magician that I was a UNK relationship . 

post: Anh ta đã làm điều đặt biệt này lúc ban đầu bằng cách tôn sùng tôi .
response: He did this especially at the beginning by idolizing me .
infer: He &apos;s been doing this because he initially at first UNK with the UNK of the day . 
beam: And he UNK this thing in the beginning by UNK myself . 

post: Chúng tôi bắt đầu hẹn hò , và anh ta yêu tôi về mọi mặt rằng tôi thông minh , rằng tôi chọn học Harvard , rằng tôi nồng nhiệt giúp đỡ những cô gái mới lớn và công việc
response: We started dating , and he loved everything about me , that I was smart , that I &apos;d gone to Harvard , that I was passionate about helping teenage girls , and my job .
infer: We started date , and he just loved me of any aspect that I had been saying , that I was just UNK to Harvard , that I started to help with new women and jobs . 
beam: And we started out for date , and he just loved me of any aspect that I was being UNK , that I would choose to Harvard , that I &apos;m UNK , that I &apos;m helping the new girls and the jobs . 

post: Anh ta muốn biết mọi thứ về gia đình tôi và về tuổi thơ của tôi , những hi vọng và mơ ước cảu tôi .
response: He wanted to know everything about my family and my childhood and my hopes and dreams .
infer: He wanted to know things about my family and my childhood , our hopes and dreams . 
beam: He wanted to know things about my family and my childhood , our hopes and dreams . 

post: Conor tin tưởng tôi , như một nhà văn và một phụ nữ theo cách mà chưa ai từng có .
response: Conor believed in me , as a writer and a woman , in a way that no one else ever had .
infer: My trust lives , as a writer and a woman in a way that no one has ever before . 
beam: UNK me , like a writer and a woman in a way that no one has ever before . 

post: Và anh ta cũng tạo ra bầu không khí huyền diệu của sự tin tưởng giữa chúng tôi bằng cách thú nhận những bí mật của anh ta , rằng , anh ta như là một đứa trẻ từ lúc bốn tuổi đã bị ngược đãi về thân thể một cách độc ác và liên tục bởi cha dượng của anh ta , và sự ngược đãi trở nên tồi tệ khiến anh ta rời bỏ trường lúc tám tuổi , mặc dù anh ta rất thông minh và anh ta mất gần 20 năm để xây dựng lại cuộc đời .
response: And he also created a magical atmosphere of trust between us by confessing his secret , which was that , as a very young boy starting at age four , he had been savagely and repeatedly physically abused by his stepfather , and the abuse had gotten so bad that he had had to drop out of school in eighth grade , even though he was very smart , and he &apos;d spent almost 20 years rebuilding his life .
infer: And he also created this amazing air of trust that UNK the real body of trust , and he was UNK , and he was UNK , UNK at eight , although he was so clever and he died almost 20 years to build his life . 
beam: And he was also creating the incredible body of the idea that UNK him to quit his eight , even though he was very clever and he died almost 20 years to build his life . 

post: Điều đó giải thích tại sao bằng cấp tại Ivy Leage và công việc tại phố Wall và tương lai tươi sáng của anh ta có ý nghĩa to lớn với anh ta thế nào .
response: Which is why that Ivy League degree and the Wall Street job and his bright shiny future meant so much to him .
infer: That explains why UNK UNK UNK and the UNK future of his light plans and his bright future as a good deal with him . 
beam: That explains why UNK UNK UNK and the UNK future in Wall Street and his UNK future have significant meanings . 

post: Nếu bạn nói với tôi rằng người đàn ông thông minh , vui tính , nhạy cảm này , người quý mến tôi một ngày ra lênh khi nào thì tôi được trang điểm hay không , váy của của tôi được ngắn bao nhiêu , tôi sống ở đâu , tôi làm công việc gì , ai là bạn của tôi và đâu là nơi tôi nghỉ lễ Giáng sinh , Tôi sẽ cười mặt vào bạn bởi vì không có mảy may môt dấu vết nào của bạo lực hay kiểm soát hay tức giận ở Conor từ lúc đầu .
response: If you had told me that this smart , funny , sensitive man who adored me would one day dictate whether or not I wore makeup , how short my skirts were , where I lived , what jobs I took , who my friends were and where I spent Christmas , I would have laughed at you , because there was not a hint of violence or control or anger in Conor at the beginning .
infer: So , you know , UNK UNK me when I was , who was UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK me a day when I was being exposed to , and who was my UNK , because there was no UNK of the UNK or UNK or UNK at
beam: So , you tell me that the UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK me a day when I &apos;m UNK , UNK , sensitive , that I &apos;m going to touch you because there &apos;s no UNK of UNK or UNK or UNK at the beginning . 

post: Tôi đã không biết rằng giai đoạn đầu tiên trong bất kì mối quan hệ bạo lực gia đình là cám dỗ và quyến rũ nạn nhân .
response: I didn &apos;t know that the first stage in any domestic violence relationship is to seduce and charm the victim .
infer: I didn &apos;t know that the first stage in any domestic UNK had been UNK to be UNK and UNK . 
beam: I didn &apos;t know that the first stage in any domestic UNK had been the temptation of temptation and legitimacy . 

post: Tôi cũng không biết rằng giai đoạn thứ hai là cô lập nạn nhân .
response: I also didn &apos;t know that the second step is to isolate the victim .
infer: I didn &apos;t know that the second stage was isolated . 
beam: I didn &apos;t know that the second stage was isolated . 

post: Bấy giờ , Conor không trở về nhà vào một ngày và thông báo rằng &quot; Này , Cô biết không , tất cả ngón nghề kiểu Romeo và juliet này thật tuyệt , nhưng tôi cần phải chuyển sang giai đoạn tiếp theo nơi mà tôi cô lập và hành hạ cô &quot; — — &quot; do vậy tôi cần phải đưa cô ra khỏi căn hộ này nơi mà những người hàng xóm có thể nghe tiếng cô la hét và ra khỏi thành phố này nơi cô có bạn bè và gia đình và những đồng nghiệp có thể nhìn thấy những vết thâm tím . &quot;
response: Now , Conor did not come home one day and announce , &quot; You know , hey , all this Romeo and Juliet stuff has been great , but I need to move into the next phase where I isolate you and I abuse you &quot; — — &quot; so I need to get you out of this apartment where the neighbors can hear you scream and out of this city where you have friends and family and coworkers who can see the bruises . &quot;
infer: Now , UNK UNK and UNK are great , but I need to zip her from this apartment that UNK can listen to her UNK and exit , in this town where she has the friends and the family and the UNK that can see the UNK . &quot; 
beam: &quot; UNK , I need to get you out of this apartment where UNK can listen to her UNK , and out of this town where she has friends and family and his colleagues can see my UNK . &quot; 

post: Thay vì vậy , Conor đã về nhà vào một tối thứ sáu và anh ấy nói với tôi rằng anh ấy nghỉ việc ngày hôm nay công việc mơ ước của anh ta , và anh ta nói rằng , anh ta bỏ việc vì tôi , bởi vì tôi làm anh cảm thấy thật an toàn và được yêu thương rằng anh ta không cần chứng tỏ bản thân ở phố Wall thêm nửa và anh ta chỉ muốn đi khỏi thành phố này xa rời gia đình bất thường và đầy ngược đãi của anh ta , đi đến một thị trấn nhỏ ở New England nơi anh ta có thể bắt đầu lại cuộc sống của anh với tôi
response: Instead , Conor came home one Friday evening and he told me that he had quit his job that day , his dream job , and he said that he had quit his job because of me , because I had made him feel so safe and loved that he didn &apos;t need to prove himself on Wall Street anymore , and he just wanted to get out of the city and away from his abusive , dysfunctional family , and move to a tiny town in New England where he could start his life over with me by his side .
infer: So UNK got home at a Friday night , and he said to me that he had quit his UNK , and he said to me that he &apos;s UNK his UNK , and he &apos;s got his UNK , and he &apos;s got his UNK , and he &apos;s
beam: So , UNK came home on a Friday night , and he said to me that he had UNK his UNK job , and he said to me that he had quit his job , and he said , &quot; Well , well , that &apos;s because I &apos;m going

post: Bấy giờ , điều cuối cùng tôi muốn làm là rời bỏ New York và công việc mơ ước của tôi , nhưng tôi đã nghĩ rằng bạn phải hi sinh cho bạn đời của mình , vì vậy , tôi đồng ý và nghỉ việc , Conor và tôi cùng nhau rời bỏ Manhattan .
response: Now , the last thing I wanted to do was leave New York , and my dream job , but I thought you made sacrifices for your soulmate , so I agreed , and I quit my job , and Conor and I left Manhattan together .
infer: Now , the final thing I wanted to do was leaving New York City , and my dream would have thought that you had to sacrifice your life , so I agreed and quit , UNK and I left for the UNK UNK . 
beam: Now , the final thing I wanted to do was leaving New York City , and my dream would have been thinking that you had to sacrifice your life , so I agreed and UNK , UNK and I left the UNK . 

post: Tôi không hề nghĩ rằng tôi đã lao vào một tình yêu điên rồ , rằng tôi đang bước những bước đầu tiên vào cái bẫy tâm lý , tiền bạc và thể xác đã được sắp đặt cẩn thận
response: I had no idea I was falling into crazy love , that I was walking headfirst into a carefully laid physical , financial and psychological trap .
infer: I don &apos;t think I &apos;ve fallen in a crazy love , that I &apos;m walking into the first UNK into the UNK , the money that &apos;s UNK , and it &apos;s UNK to be carefully UNK . 
beam: I didn &apos;t think I had fallen in a crazy love , that I was walking into the first UNK into the UNK , the money and the UNK were put up to the kidney . 

post: Bước tiếp theo trong kịch bản bạo lực này là đưa vào sự đe doạ bạo lực và xem cô ta phản ứng ra sao .
response: The next step in the domestic violence pattern is to introduce the threat of violence and see how she reacts .
infer: The next UNK in this UNK scenario is to get a constant threat and see how much different falls on our response . 
beam: The next UNK in this UNK scenario is to get a violence on violence and see what her reaction . 

post: Từ đây , những cây súng bước vào
response: And here &apos;s where those guns come in .
infer: So here , UNK UNK . 
beam: So , the UNK went in . 

post: khi chúng tôi chuyển đến New England -- bạn biết đấy , nơi mà Conor dựa vào để cảm thấy an toàn -- anh ta mua ba cây súng
response: As soon as we moved to New England -- you know , that place where Connor was supposed to feel so safe -- he bought three guns .
infer: When we moved to New England -- you know , where UNK is in the safe way , he buys three of UNK . 
beam: And when we moved to New England -- you know , where UNK UNK to get safe there -- he buys three UNK . 

post: Anh ta giữ một cây trong ngăn chứa đồ của chiếc xe của chúng tôi .
response: He kept one in the glove compartment of our car .
infer: He held a tree in the UNK of our car . 
beam: He kept a tree in the UNK of our car . 

post: một cây dưới gối chỗ giường ngủ của chúng tôi cây thứ ba anh luôn ta giữa trong ví
response: He kept one under the pillows on our bed , and the third one he kept in his pocket at all times .
infer: And the one in the UNK of our bed UNK tree -- the third of you are in between the wallet . 
beam: A tree in my bed , the third UNK , he &apos;s the third . 

post: Và anh ta nói rằng anh ta cần những cây súng này bởi vì những tổn thương mà anh đã trải qua trong quá khứ khi là một đứa trẻ .
response: And he said that he needed those guns because of the trauma he &apos;d experienced as a young boy .
infer: And he said he needed these gun because of the damage that he had experienced in the past to be a child . 
beam: And he said he needed these gun because of the damage that he had experienced in the past as a child . 

post: Anh ta cần chúng để cảm thấy được bảo vệ .
response: He needed them to feel protected .
infer: He needs them to be UNK . 
beam: He needs them to be UNK . 

post: Nhưng những cây súng này thật ra là một lời nhắn cho tôi , và mặc dù anh ta chưa đưa cánh tay về phía tôi , nhưng cuộc sống của tôi ở trong tình thế nguy hiểm từng phút mỗi ngày .
response: But those guns were really a message for me , and even though he hadn &apos;t raised a hand to me , my life was already in grave danger every minute of every day .
infer: But these UNK are actually an UNK message to me , and even though he doesn &apos;t bring my arms back to me , but my life is at every single day every day . 
beam: But these UNK are actually an UNK message to me , and even though he haven &apos;t landed behind me , but my life is at the risk of every day . 

post: Conor đã tấn công vào tôi năm ngày trước đám cưới của chúng tôi .
response: Conor first physically attacked me five days before our wedding .
infer: UNK hit me five days ago to our UNK . 
beam: UNK hit me five days before our UNK . 

post: Đó là lúc 7 giờ sáng khi tôi còn đang mặc áo ngủ .
response: It was 7 a.m. I still had on my nightgown .
infer: It was at 7 a.m. , my living death is wearing a sleep in the UNK . 
beam: It was at the age of 7 : I was wearing one in a UNK . 

post: Tôi đang lamg việc trên mái tính , cố hoang thành bài viết được giao và tôi thấy nản lòng , Conor dùng sự tức giận của tôi như lời bào chữa để lấy hai tay vòng quanh cổ tôi và xiết chặt đến nổi tôi không thể thở hay la hét , và anh ta dùng cùi chỏ đập đầu tôi vào tường liên tục .
response: I was working on my computer trying to finish a freelance writing assignment , and I got frustrated , and Conor used my anger as an excuse to put both of his hands around my neck and to squeeze so tightly that I could not breathe or scream , and he used the chokehold to hit my head repeatedly against the wall .
infer: I &apos;m UNK my UNK , and I &apos;m UNK my UNK , and I &apos;m UNK my heel , and I &apos;m not breathing or UNK my heel or my UNK , and I can &apos;t breathe or screaming , and then he uses UNK UNK to my side
beam: I &apos;m UNK myself on my UNK , I &apos;m trying to UNK into my UNK , I &apos;m UNK , I can &apos;t breath or screaming my breath , and my UNK , and I can &apos;t breath my breath , and I &apos;m UNK my head in the

post: Năm ngày sau , mười vết bầm trên cổ tôi đã hiện lên rõ , và tôi mặc chiếc váy cưới của mẹ tôi , và kết hôn với anh ta .
response: Five days later , the ten bruises on my neck had just faded , and I put on my mother &apos;s wedding dress , and I married him .
infer: Five days later , I was about 10 feet on my neck that I worked on clear , and I &apos;m dressed my mom dress , and I &apos;m married with him . 
beam: Five days later , I was about 10 feet on my neck , and I was wearing my mom dress , and I was married with him . 

post: Mặc cho những điều đã xảy ra , Tôi vẫn chắc rằng chúng tôi sẽ sống hạnh phúc mãi bởi vì tôi yêu anh ấy và anh ấy cũng yêu tôi rất nhiều .
response: Despite what had happened , I was sure we were going to live happily ever after , because I loved him , and he loved me so much .
infer: Now , for what happened , I &apos;m sure we were going to live happy because I loved him and he also loved me too much . 
beam: Now , what happened , I &apos;m sure we were going to live happy because I loved him and he also loved me too much . 

post: và anh ta đã vô cùng hối lỗi .
response: And he was very , very sorry .
infer: And he was very blame . 
beam: And he was very blame . 

post: Anh ta đã thật sự rất căng thẳng vì đám cưới và việc lập gia đình với tôi .
response: He had just been really stressed out by the wedding and by becoming a family with me .
infer: He was very nervous for the wedding and the wedding family and so family . 
beam: He was very nervous for the wedding and the wedding family and so family . 

post: Đó là môt sự cố cá biệt , và anh ta sẽ không bao giờ làm đau tôi nữa .
response: It was an isolated incident , and he was never going to hurt me again .
infer: It was a UNK UNK , and he would never hurt me again . 
beam: It &apos;s a dolphin UNK , and he will never hurt me again . 

post: Nó đã xảy ra thêm hai lần trong tuần trăng mật .
response: It happened twice more on the honeymoon .
infer: It happened twice a little bit of birth in the UNK week . 
beam: It happened the two times in the UNK week . 

post: Lần đầu tiên , Tôi đang lái xe để tìm một bãi biển bí mật và tôi bị lạc , anh ta đánh vào một bên đầu tôi rất mạnh khiến đầu tôi liên tục đập vào cửa kính của xe
response: The first time , I was driving to find a secret beach and I got lost , and he punched me in the side of my head so hard that the other side of my head repeatedly hit the driver &apos;s side window .
infer: For the first time , I was driving to find a UNK beach and I got lost , and he was UNK on the head of my head that was very strong , and I was constantly breaking down against the glass glass . 
beam: For the first time , I was driving to find a UNK beach and I got lost , and he was casting in the head of my head that was very strong for me to UNK ourselves into the glass of the car . 

post: Vài ngày sau đó , khi đang lái xe về nhà sau tuần trăng mật , anh ta mệt mỏi vì xe cộ , và anh ta ném cả túi thức ăn Big Mac vào mặt tôi .
response: And then a few days later , driving home from our honeymoon , he got frustrated by traffic , and he threw a cold Big Mac in my face .
infer: And a few days later , I was driving home after the UNK , and he was tired of his UNK , and he threw his UNK off up with him . 
beam: And a few days later , as I was driving home after the UNK , he got tired of his car , and he threw up all the UNK off my face . 

post: Conor tiếp tuc đánh tôi một đến hai lần mỗi tuần trong suốt hai tháng sau và nửa năm từ khi kết hôn .
response: Conor proceeded to beat me once or twice a week for the next two and a half years of our marriage .
infer: UNK hit me once a couple of times two months and the half of the year or about a year . 
beam: UNK UNK hit me a couple of times a week for two months and half a year after marriage . 

post: Tôi đã sai lầm khi nghĩ rằng tôi là trường hợp duy nhất và mình tôi đơn độc trong chuyện này .
response: I was mistaken in thinking that I was unique and alone in this situation .
infer: I was wrong to think that I was the only case and I was alone in this . 
beam: I was wrong to think that I was the only case and I was alone in this . 

post: Một phần ba phụ nữ Mỹ trải qua bạo lực gia đình hoặc bị rình rập trong một số giai đoạn cuộc đời và báo cáo CDC cho thấy 15 triệu trẻ em bị ngược đãi mỗi năm , 15 triệu .
response: One in three American women experiences domestic violence or stalking at some point in her life , and the CDC reports that 15 million children are abused every year , 15 million .
infer: One out of three UNK UNK violence or UNK in a small number of life and announced UNK shows the 15 million UNK children per year , 15 million . 
beam: One third of American women experienced domestic violence or UNK during a small period of life and announced UNK shows 15 million UNK children per year , 15 million . 

post: Vì vậy , tôi thật sự đã ở trong công ty rất tốt
response: So actually , I was in very good company .
infer: So , I &apos;m actually in the company very well . 
beam: So , I &apos;m actually in the company very well . 

post: Trở lại câu hỏi của tôi : Tại sao tôi ở lại ?
response: Back to my question : Why did I stay ?
infer: I &apos;m going to leave my question : Why am I still ? 
beam: Back to my question : Why am I still ? 

post: Câu trả lời rất dễ .
response: The answer is easy .
infer: UNK answer . 
beam: UNK answer . 

post: Tôi không biết anh ta đang bạo hành tôi .
response: I didn &apos;t know he was abusing me .
infer: I don &apos;t know whether he &apos;s in my office . 
beam: I don &apos;t know whether he &apos;s in my office . 

post: Thậm chí anh ta chĩa súng vào đầu tôi , đẩy tôi xuống sàn , đe doạ giết lũ chó của tôi , rút chìa khoá ra khỏi xe khi tôi đang lái xe vào đường cao tốc đổ grinds cafe lên đầu tôi khi tôi đang mặc đồ cho buổi phỏng vấn , Tôi chưa bao giờ một lần nghĩ bản thân như một người vợ bị hành hạ .
response: Even though he held those loaded guns to my head , pushed me down stairs , threatened to kill our dog , pulled the key out of the car ignition as I drove down the highway , poured coffee grinds on my head as I dressed for a job interview , I never once thought of myself as a battered wife .
infer: He was even shooting at the end of my head , and he said , and he said , UNK me down on the floor , and he said , UNK my dog , UNK the UNK in my head when I was wearing my title , I never once
beam: He was even shooting at the end of my head , and it was threatening to UNK on my head when I was in my title for the interview , I never once thought to myself as a UNK man . 

post: Thay vào đó , tôi là một phụ nữ mạnh mẽ trong tình yêu với một người đàn ông có vấn đề , và tôi là người duy nhất trên trái đất có thể giúp Conor đối mặt với cái xấu xa của anh ta .
response: Instead , I was a very strong woman in love with a deeply troubled man , and I was the only person on Earth who could help Conor face his demons .
infer: Instead , I am a strong woman in love with a man who has problems , and I &apos;m the only person on Earth who can help UNK to the evil end of him . 
beam: Instead , I was a strong woman in love with a man who got a problem , and I was the only person in the Earth who could help UNK against the evil end of him . 

post: Câu hỏi khác mà mọi người hay hỏi là , tại sao cô ấy lại không bỏ đi ?
response: The other question everybody asks is , why doesn &apos;t she just leave ?
infer: The other question that people were asking is , why hasn &apos;t you moved out ? 
beam: The other question people ask to ask is , why didn &apos;t you get out ? 

post: tại sao tôi đã không bước đi ? Tôi có thể bỏ đi bất cứ lúc nào .
response: Why didn &apos;t I walk out ? I could have left any time .
infer: Why did I not walk ? I could leave whenever I would leave myself . 
beam: Why did I not walk ? I could leave any time . 

post: Với tôi , đó là câu hỏi buồn và đau đớn nhất , bởi vì chúng tôi , những nạn nhân biết một số thứ mà bạn thường không biết : thật là một nguy hiểm kinh khủng để rời bỏ một kẻ bạo hành như thế .
response: To me , this is the saddest and most painful question that people ask , because we victims know something you usually don &apos;t : It &apos;s incredibly dangerous to leave an abuser .
infer: For me , it was the UNK question , because we , the ones know something that you might not know : it &apos;s a horrible risk to leave a UNK like that . 
beam: For me , it &apos;s the UNK question , because we , the ones know something that you often don &apos;t know : it &apos;s a horrible risk to leave such a UNK . 

post: Bởi vì bước cuối cùng trong kịch bản bạo hành gia đình là giết chết cô ta .
response: Because the final step in the domestic violence pattern is kill her .
infer: Because the last step in the UNK of UNK is killing her . 
beam: Because the last step in the National UNK is killing her . 

post: Hơn 70 phần trăm tội ác bạo hành gia đình xảy ra sau khi nạn nhân kết thúc mối quan hệ , sau khi cô ấy bỏ đi , bởi vì sau đó kẻ bạo hành đó không còn gì để mất .
response: Over 70 percent of domestic violence murders happen after the victim has ended the relationship , after she &apos;s gotten out , because then the abuser has nothing left to lose .
infer: Over 70 percent of the UNK violence has happened after the victims of the relationship had the connection , after the event of the relationship had moved , because eventually that guy was nothing left . 
beam: Over 70 percent of the UNK violence has happened after the victims of the relationship had a relationship , since she moved away , because then the UNK wouldn &apos;t exist . 

post: Nhưng hậu quả khác như bị theo dõi lâu dài , thậm chí sau kẻ lạm dụng kết hôn lại ; khước từ những nguồn tài chính ; và vận động của hệ thống toàn án gia đình để làm khiếp sợ nạn nhân và những đứa trẻ của cô ta , những đứa trẻ này thường bị ép buộc bởi phán quyết của toà dành thời gian không bị giám sát với người đàn ông đã đánh đập mẹ chúng .
response: Other outcomes include long-term stalking , even after the abuser remarries ; denial of financial resources ; and manipulation of the family court system to terrify the victim and her children , who are regularly forced by family court judges to spend unsupervised time with the man who beat their mother .
infer: But the UNK was UNK , and even after UNK alone , UNK from her children , who were UNK by the UNK of the time to be UNK with the man as UNK their mother &apos;s UNK . 
beam: But the UNK was UNK , and even after the UNK would get married ; UNK from the UNK of the family , and the children that were UNK by the UNK of the time to be UNK with the man as UNK themselves . 

post: Và chúng ta có tiếp tục hỏi , tại sao cô ấy không bỏ đi ?
response: And still we ask , why doesn &apos;t she just leave ?
infer: And we have to ask , why don &apos;t you get away ? 
beam: And so we go on , why don &apos;t you get away ? 

post: Tôi đã có thể bỏ đi , bởi vì một đòn đánh thô bạo cuối cùng đã đập tan sự từ bỏ của tôi .
response: I was able to leave , because of one final , sadistic beating that broke through my denial .
infer: I could have been able to walk , because the last UNK UNK that had been UNK my UNK . 
beam: I could walk away , because the last UNK UNK had UNK my UNK . 

post: Tôi nhận ra rằng người đàn ông tôi rất yêu thương sẽ giết tôi nếu tôi bỏ rơi anh ta .
response: I realized that the man who I loved so much was going to kill me if I let him .
infer: I realized that man very loved people would kill me if I left him off . 
beam: I realized that man very loved people would kill me if I left him off . 

post: Vì vậy tôi phát vỡ sự yên lặng .
response: So I broke the silence .
infer: So I broke the quiet of my UNK . 
beam: So I broke the silence . 

post: Tôi kể với mọi người : cánh sát , những người láng giềng , bạn bè và gia đình tôi , những người hoàn toàn xa lạ , và tôi đứng đây hôm nay bởi vì bạn đều đang giúp tôi .
response: I told everyone : the police , my neighbors , my friends and family , total strangers , and I &apos;m here today because you all helped me .
infer: I &apos;m telling people : the UNK , the UNK , my friends and family , the last people are totally strange , and I &apos;m here today because you &apos;re all helping me . 
beam: I told everyone : the UNK , the UNK , the friends , the friends , the UNK , and I &apos;m here today because you &apos;re all helping me . 

post: Chúng ta có quan niệm rập khuôn về nạn nhân như những tiêu đề đáng sợ , những phụ nữ tự huỷ hoại mình , những điều tốt bị làm tổn thương .
response: We tend to stereotype victims as grisly headlines , self-destructive women , damaged goods .
infer: We have the concept of the victims of victims as UNK headlines , women UNK , things that are hurt . 
beam: We have this notion of the victims of the victims as UNK headlines , the women UNK themselves , the things that are hurt . 

post: Câu hỏi , &quot; Tai sao cô ấy ở lại ? &quot;
response: The question , &quot; Why does she stay ? &quot;
infer: And the question , &quot; Why did she remained ? &quot; 
beam: And the question , &quot; Why did she remained ? &quot; 

post: là lí lẽ của một số người , &quot; Đấy là lỗi của cô ấy khi ở lại &quot; như thể nạn nhân đã lựa chọn yêu đàn ông với ý định phá huỷ chúng ta .
response: is code for some people for , &quot; It &apos;s her fault for staying , &quot; as if victims intentionally choose to fall in love with men intent upon destroying us .
infer: It &apos;s the argument of the number , &quot; It &apos;s her fault for UNK , as if the victim had chosen to love men with the idea of UNK us . 
beam: It &apos;s the argument of the number of people , &quot; That &apos;s why her flaw , when I stayed here , &quot; as if the victim had chosen men with what UNK us . 

post: Nhưng từ khi xuất bản &quot; Crazy Love &quot; Tôi đã nghe hàng trăm câu chuyện từ đàn ông và phụ nữ những người cũng đã bỏ đi , những người học được một bài học cuộc sống vô giá từ nhưng điều đã xảy ra , và những ai xây dựng lại cuộc sống -- hạnh phúc , vui vẻ-- như những nhân viên , những người vợ , người mẹ , sống cuộc sống hoàn toàn không có bạo lực , như tôi .
response: But since publishing &quot; Crazy Love , &quot; I have heard hundreds of stories from men and women who also got out , who learned an invaluable life lesson from what happened , and who rebuilt lives -- joyous , happy lives -- as employees , wives and mothers , lives completely free of violence , like me .
infer: But UNK , I &apos;ve heard hundreds of stories from men and women who have left their lives , the happiest life , as young people , the wives , the mother , the mother , the life , the life , the life , the life , the life
beam: But UNK , I &apos;ve been hearing hundreds of stories from men and women who have left their lives : happy happiness , as good as employees , my wives , my mother , to live lives without violence , as well . 

post: Bởi sự thật tôi là một nạn nhân điển hình của bạo lực gia đình đã kết thúc tôi là người sống sót điển hình khỏi bạo lực gia đình .
response: Because it turns out that I &apos;m actually a very typical domestic violence victim and a typical domestic violence survivor .
infer: Because I am a great victim by the UNK of the family of UNK , who ended me with somebody who &apos;s going to end off the family of the family . 
beam: Because I am a great nucleus by the UNK of the family of UNK , who ended me with somebody who was going to end off the family of the family . 

post: Tôi kết hôn lại với một người đàn ông tử tế và tốt bụng , và chúng tôi có với nhau ba đứa con .
response: I remarried a kind and gentle man , and we have those three kids .
infer: I would leave with a man and a nice man and a nice man , and we had three children . 
beam: I was married with a UNK man and nice man , and we had three children . 

post: Tôi có con chó Black Lab và tôi có chiếc Minivan .
response: I have that black lab , and I have that minivan .
infer: I have a UNK and I have a UNK . 
beam: I have a UNK and I have a UNK . 

post: Điều tôi không bao giờ lại có nửa , mãi mãi là một cây súng chĩa vào đầu tôi bởi ai đó nói rằng anh ta yêu tôi .
response: What I will never have again , ever , is a loaded gun held to my head by someone who says that he loves me .
infer: And what I didn &apos;t have to do is , in half , forever was a UNK UNK in my head because somebody said he was in love . 
beam: And what I didn &apos;t have had in half , forever was a UNK UNK to me because somebody said he liked me . 

post: Ngay lúc này , có thể bạn đang nghĩ , &quot; Ồ , điều này thật tuyệt vời &quot; hay , &quot; Ồ , cô ấy mới ngốc làm sao &quot; nhưng tất cả thời gian này , tôi đã thật sự nói về bạn .
response: Right now , maybe you &apos;re thinking , &quot; Wow , this is fascinating , &quot; or , &quot; Wow , how stupid was she , &quot; but this whole time , I &apos;ve actually been talking about you .
infer: Now , as you might be thinking , &quot; Oh , this is great , &quot; Oh , this is so stupid , &quot; but all of this time , I &apos;ve been really talking about you . 
beam: Now , perhaps you &apos;re thinking , &quot; Oh , this is great , &quot; Oh , this is so stupid , &quot; but all this time , I &apos;ve been really talking about you . 

post: Tôi chắc rằng bạn trong số những người đang nghe tôi nói lúc này là những người đang bị ngược đãi hoặc những người đã bị ngược đãi khi con nhỏ hoặc những người tự ngược đãi chính mình
response: I promise you there are several people listening to me right now who are currently being abused or who were abused as children or who are abusers themselves .
infer: I &apos;m sure that you &apos;re among those of you who are listening to me now -- are people who are suffering , or they may have been UNK as young as they are , or they own own own UNK . 
beam: I &apos;m sure that you &apos;re among those of you who are listening to me now -- are people who being UNK , or they were UNK by children , or their own UNK . 

post: sự ngược đãi có thể ảnh hưởng đến con gái bạn , em gái của bạn , người bạn thân nhất của bạn ngay lúc này .
response: Abuse could be affecting your daughter , your sister , your best friend right now .
infer: UNK can affect your daughter , your UNK , your best friend right at right now . 
beam: UNK can affect your daughter , your UNK , your best friend right now . 

post: Tôi có thể kết thúc câu chuyện tình yêu điên rồ của tôi bằng cách phá tan sự im lặng .
response: I was able to end my own crazy love story by breaking the silence .
infer: I can end my story of my UNK love by UNK the silence . 
beam: I can finish my crazy love by UNK the silence . 

post: Tôi đang đập tan sự im lặng hôm nay .
response: I &apos;m still breaking the silence today .
infer: I &apos;m beating the silence of silent . 
beam: I &apos;m beating the silence today . 

post: Đây là cách tôi giúp những nạn nhân khác , và đây là yêu cầu cuối cùng của tôi
response: It &apos;s my way of helping other victims , and it &apos;s my final request of you .
infer: This is how I gave victims , and this is my UNK request . 
beam: Here &apos;s how I put my other victims , and here &apos;s my UNK request . 

post: Hãy kể về những gì bạn được nghe ở đây .
response: Talk about what you heard here .
infer: Tell you what you &apos;re heard here . 
beam: Tell me what you &apos;re heard here . 

post: Sự ngược đãi chỉ đáng sợ trong im lặng .
response: Abuse thrives only in silence .
infer: The UNK UNK is just a scary UNK . 
beam: UNK is only scary . 

post: Bạn có sức mạnh để kết thúc bạo lực gia đình đơn giản bằng cách rọi vào đó một tia sáng .
response: You have the power to end domestic violence simply by shining a spotlight on it .
infer: You have power to get a simple force to make a simple force by putting it a light . 
beam: You have the power to move down the simple force simply by putting it a light . 

post: Chúng ta những nạn nhân cần đến tất cả mọi người .
response: We victims need everyone .
infer: We &apos;re victims that need to be UNK everybody . 
beam: We &apos;re victims that need everybody . 

post: Chúng ta cần các bạn để thấu hiểu bí mật của bạo lực gia đình .
response: We need every one of you to understand the secrets of domestic violence .
infer: We need you to understand the security of the family violence . 
beam: We need you to understand the security of the family violence . 

post: soi roi sự ngược đãi ánh sáng của ngày hôm nay bằng cách nói về nó với những đứa trẻ của bạn , những đồng nghiệp của bạn , bạn bè và gia đình bạn .
response: Show abuse the light of day by talking about it with your children , your coworkers , your friends and family .
infer: UNK the UNK UNK of today &apos;s light by talking about it with your children , your own coworkers , friends and family . 
beam: UNK the UNK UNK of today &apos;s creativity by talking about it with your children , your own friends , friends and family . 

post: Viết lại cuộc đời họ như nhưng người hạnh phúc , đáng yêu với tương lai rộng mở .
response: Recast survivors as wonderful , lovable people with full futures .
infer: UNK it is to have UNK their lives , but happiness , as UNK as the open future is open . 
beam: It UNK their life as &quot; But happiness , &quot; UNK , UNK future . 

post: Nhận biết những tín hiệu sớm của bạo lực và những dối trá của lương tâm , giảm nó xuống , chỉ cho nạn nhân lối ra an toàn .
response: Recognize the early signs of violence and conscientiously intervene , deescalate it , show victims a safe way out .
infer: UNK UNK at the UNK signal of violence and the UNK of their conscience , to stop it down , to the global issue of the UNK . 
beam: You know some of the earliest UNK of violence and the UNK of the conscience , to stop it down , just UNK . 

post: Cùng nhau chúng ta có thể làm cho giường ngủ của chúng ta bàn ăn và gia đình của chúng ta trở nên những ốc đảo bình yên và an toàn
response: Together we can make our beds , our dinner tables and our families the safe and peaceful oases they should be .
infer: Together we can make our bedroom back and our family , make quiet and safety UNK . 
beam: Together we can get our UNK and our families back all the quiet and safety UNK . 

post: Cảm ơn
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Tôi muốn nói chuyện với các bạn về một nhóm động vật rất đặc biệt
response: I would like to talk to you about a very special group of animals .
infer: I want to talk to you about a very special animal group . 
beam: I want to talk to you about a very special animal group . 

post: Hiện có khoảng 10,000 loài chim trên thế giới .
response: There are 10,000 species of birds in the world .
infer: There are about 10,000 species of birds in the world . 
beam: There are about 10,000 birds in the world . 

post: Kền kền là một trong những nhóm chim bị đe doạ nghiêm trọng nhất
response: Vultures are amongst the most threatened group of birds .
infer: UNK UNK is one of the most respected birds of UNK . 
beam: UNK UNK is one of the most dangerous ones . 

post: Khi bạn thấy một con kền lền như thế này , điều đầu tiên hiện ra trong đầu bạn đó là , đây là những sinh vật thật kinh tởm , xấu xí , tham ăn và chỉ nhắm đến thịt bạn , liên tưởng đến những chính trị gia nhỉ .
response: When you see a vulture like this , the first thing that comes to your mind is , these are disgusting , ugly , greedy creatures that are just after your flesh , associated with politicians .
infer: When you see a UNK UNK like this , the first thing to come out is that these are disgusting , UNK creatures , UNK and UNK to your brain , to make up care politicians . 
beam: When you see a UNK UNK like this , the first thing that comes out in your mind is , these are the magnificent UNK , the bad things , the UNK and the only UNK of meat , UNK to the politicians . 

post: Tôi muốn thay đổi sự nhận thức đó . Tôi muốn thay đổi những cảm giác mà bạn dành cho những chú chim này , vì chúng cần đến sự thương cảm của chúng ta . Chúng thật sự rất cần .
response: I want to change that perception . I want to change those feelings you have for these birds , because they need our sympathy . They really do .
infer: I want to change that mindset , I want to change the feeling that you spend for these birds , because they need to be in our compassion . They need to change . 
beam: I want to change that mindset , I want to change the feeling that you spend for these birds , because it needs to be in our compassion . 

post: Tôi sẽ nói cho bạn biết tại sao .
response: And I &apos;ll tell you why .
infer: I &apos;ll tell you why . 
beam: I &apos;ll tell you why . 

post: Trước tiên , tại sao chúng lại có ấn tượng xấu như vậy ?
response: First of all , why do they have such a bad press ?
infer: First , why do they have this UNK effect ? 
beam: First of all , why are they so good ? 

post: Khi Charles Darwin vượt qua Thái Bình Dương năm 1832 từ tàu Beagle , ông thấy những con kền kền Thổ Nhĩ Kỳ , Ông nói , &quot; Những con chim này thật kinh tởm với cái đầu trọc đỏ chói được tạo ra để hoan hỉ trong hôi thối
response: When Charles Darwin went across the Atlantic in 1832 on the Beagle , he saw the turkey vulture , and he said , &quot; These are disgusting birds with bald scarlet heads that are formed to revel in putridity . &quot;
infer: When Charles Darwin went over the UNK UNK from UNK , he said , &quot; These birds are so strong with this head of red , so UNK are created to UNK in UNK . 
beam: When Charles Darwin went over the UNK UNK from UNK UNK , he said , &quot; These birds are so disgusting with this head of UNK , so they &apos;re formed to UNK in UNK . 

post: Bạn không thể nào bị sỉ nhục tồi tệ hơn thế , và đó là những lời từ Charles Darwin .
response: You could not get a worse insult , and that from Charles Darwin .
infer: You couldn &apos;t have been the worse UNK that was worse than that , and that was UNK word UNK words . 
beam: You couldn &apos;t have been the superior UNK , and there were words from Charles Darwin . 

post: Bạn biết đấy , Ông đã thay đổi ý kiến khi ông quay lại , Để tôi nói cho bạn biết tại sao .
response: You know , he changed his mind when he came back , and I &apos;ll tell you why .
infer: You know , he changed the mind when he came back , so I tell you why . 
beam: You know , he changed the mind when he came back , and let me tell you why . 

post: Chúng cũng đã bị liên kết với Disney-- bị nhân cách hoá thành những nhân vật đần độn , ngố , ngu ngốc .
response: They &apos;ve also be associated with Disney — — personified as goofy , dumb , stupid characters .
infer: They also got UNK to UNK , UNK , UNK characters . 
beam: It &apos;s been connected to UNK , UNK , stupid characters . 

post: Gần đây hơn , nếu bạn đang theo dõi tin tức ở Kenya ---- đây là những thuộc tính đặc trưng mà gắn kết với những quân cảnh Keya . Nhưng tôi muốn phản kháng lại điều đó
response: More recently , if you &apos;ve been following the Kenyan press — — these are the attributes that they associated the Kenyan MPs with . But I want to challenge that .
infer: More often , if you &apos;re watching the news in Kenya -- these are the properties that UNK the UNK UNK UNK , but I want to protest that . 
beam: More often , if you &apos;re watching the news in Kenya -- these are the UNK properties that UNK with UNK , but I want to protest that . 

post: Tôi muốn phản kháng lại vì bạn biết sao không ?
response: I want to challenge that . Do you know why ?
infer: I want to respond back because you know what ? 
beam: I want to respond back because you know what ? 

post: vì quân cảnh không giữ cho môi trường trong sạch .
response: Because MPs do not keep the environment clean .
infer: Because the UNK doesn &apos;t keep the environment in clean . 
beam: UNK don &apos;t keep the environment in clean . 

post: Quân cảnh không giúp ngăn chặn sự lây lan của bệnh tật .
response: MPs do not help to prevent the spread of diseases .
infer: The traffic have not helped stop disease . 
beam: UNK do not stop the contagion of disease . 

post: Họ hầu như không thể chế độ một vợ-một chồng .
response: They are hardly monogamous .
infer: They hardly hardly UNK a husband . 
beam: They hardly hardly UNK . 

post: Họ còn lâu mới bị tuyệt chủng .
response: They are far from being extinct .
infer: They were also getting extinct . 
beam: They were also UNK . 

post: Và , điều mà tôi thích nhất là , những con kền kền trông được hơn nhiều
response: And , my favorite is , vultures are better looking .
infer: And , what I &apos;m like by first , these UNK UNK have to look a lot more . 
beam: And , what I love most is that UNK UNK are getting better . 

post: Có hai loại kền kền trên hành tinh này .
response: So there &apos;s two types of vultures in this planet .
infer: These are two UNK on this planet . 
beam: These are two UNK on this planet . 

post: Những loại Kền kền Tân Thế Giới được tìm thấy chủ yếu tại Mỹ , giống như loài condor và caracaras tiếp đó kền kền Cựu Thế Giới , nơi mà có khoảng 16 loài . Trong số 16 loài này thì có 11 loài đối mặt với nguy cơ tuyệt chủng cao .
response: There are the New World vultures that are mainly found in the Americas , like the condors and the caracaras , and then the Old World vultures , where we have 16 species . From these 16 , 11 of them are facing a high risk of extinction .
infer: The UNK UNK UNK UNK found mainly in the United States , like UNK UNK and UNK UNK World UNK , which is about 16 species of UNK species , and so many of these 16 species , there are 11 species of UNK in the UNK risk of extinction
beam: The UNK UNK UNK UNK found mainly in the United States , like UNK UNK and UNK UNK World UNK , which is about 16 species , and in the 16 species , there are 11 species of UNK in UNK . 

post: Vậy , tại sao kền kền lại quan trọng ? Trước hết , chúng cung cấp những dịch vụ sinh thái thiết yếu . Chúng dọn dẹp .
response: So why are vultures important ? First of all , they provide vital ecological services . They clean up .
infer: So why UNK ? First , they provide UNK services . They UNK . 
beam: So why UNK ? First , they provide UNK services , they UNK them . 

post: Chúng thật sự là những gã gom rác tự nhiên .
response: They &apos;re our natural garbage collectors .
infer: They &apos;re actually natural UNK . 
beam: They &apos;re actually natural UNK . 

post: Chúng dọn sạch những xác chết đến tận xương .
response: They clean up carcasses right to the bone .
infer: They cleaned up the UNK of their bodies to the bone . 
beam: They cleaned up the UNK of the UNK . 

post: Chúng giúp tiêu diệt vi khuẩn . Chúng giúp hấp thụ bệnh than mà đã có thể lan rộng và gây ra những mất mát to lớn cho ngành chăn nuôi gia súc và gây bệnh cho những loài vật khác
response: They help to kill all the bacteria . They help absorb anthrax that would otherwise spread and cause huge livestock losses and diseases in other animals .
infer: They UNK bacteria . They UNK the UNK that they were able to spread and causing great loss for livestock production and for other animals . 
beam: They UNK bacteria . They help UNK diseases that were able to spread and UNK great costs for livestock production and UNK . 

post: những nghiên cứu gần nhất đã cho thấy tại những khu vực mà không có kền kền xác chết cần khoảng thời gian gấp 3 đến 4 lần để phân huỷ , và hệ quả to lớn từ việc này là sự lây lan của bệnh tật .
response: Recent studies have shown that in areas where there are no vultures , carcasses take up to three to four times to decompose , and this has huge ramifications for the spread of diseases .
infer: The recent findings that showed in places that have no UNK UNK need to have a UNK time to break up the UNK , and the big outcome from this is the spread of disease . 
beam: The last search study have shown in areas that have no UNK UNK need to have a UNK time to break up , and the big implication from this is the spread of disease . 

post: Kền kền cũng có một lịch sử hoành tráng về tầm quan trọng của chúng .
response: Vultures also have tremendous historical significance .
infer: UNK UNK has a great history of their importance . 
beam: UNK UNK has a great history of their importance . 

post: Chúng đã được kết liên với nền văn hoá Ai Cập cổ đại
response: They have been associated in ancient Egyptian culture .
infer: And they were coupled with ancient UNK . 
beam: And they were coupled with ancient UNK . 

post: Nekhbet là biểu tượng của người bảo vệ và tình mẹ , và cùng với rắn hổ mang , chúng biểu tượng hoá cho sự hợp nhất giữa Miền Ngược &amp; amp ; Miền Xuôi của Ai cập .
response: Nekhbet was the symbol of the protector and the motherhood , and together with the cobra , symbolized the unity between Upper and Lower Egypt .
infer: UNK is the symbol of UNK and UNK , and with a UNK that is bringing , and they represent the UNK between UNK and UNK . UNK of UNK . 
beam: UNK is the symbol of UNK and UNK , and with a UNK tiger , the symbol of the UNK between UNK and UNK of Egyptian . 

post: Trong thần thoại Hindu , Jatayu là thần kền kền , Ông đã mạo hiểm mạng sống để cứu nữ thần Sita từ tay quỷ 10 đầu Ravana .
response: In Hindu mythology , Jatayu was the vulture god , and he risked his life in order to save the goddess Sita from the 10-headed demon Ravana .
infer: In a UNK , UNK UNK UNK , he UNK his life to save the UNK UNK from the UNK UNK . 
beam: In a UNK , UNK UNK UNK , he UNK his life to save the UNK UNK from the UNK UNK . 

post: Trong nền văn hoá Tibet , họ thực hiện thiên táng rất quan trọng . Tại những nơi như ở Tibet , chẳng có chỗ để chôn người chết , hoặc chẳng có củi để thiêu họ , vậy nên những con kền kền cung cấp một hệ thống sử lí chất thải tự nhiên .
response: In Tibetan culture , they are performing very important sky burials . In places like Tibet , there are no places to bury the dead , or wood to cremate them , so these vultures provide a natural disposal system .
infer: In the UNK culture , they &apos;re UNK UNK , in the UNK , there is no place buried to die , or there &apos;s no wood to burn them , so the UNK ones are providing a natural natural system . 
beam: In a UNK culture , they do the UNK UNK , in the places , there is no place buried to die , or there &apos;s no wood in order to get them , so the UNK leaves a natural natural system . 

post: Vậy chú kền kền đang bị sao ?
response: So what is the problem with vultures ?
infer: So what is UNK ? 
beam: So what is UNK ? 

post: Chúng ta có 8 loài kền kền xuất hiện tại Kenya , trong đó có 6 loài bị đe doạ với nguy cơ tuyệt chủng cao .
response: We have eight species of vultures that occur in Kenya , of which six are highly threatened with extinction .
infer: We have eight UNK UNK that show up in Kenya , in which there are six species dangerous with an extinct risk . 
beam: We have eight UNK UNK that show up in Kenya , in which we have six endangered species that are threatened with extinct risk . 

post: Lí do là chúng đang bị đầu độc , chúng bị đầu độc vì có những sự tranh giành giữa con người-và thế giới hoang dã . Những cộng đồng mục đồng đang sử dụng chất độc này để nhằm vào các con vật săn mồi nhưng thay vì vậy , những con kền kền lại là nạn nhân cho này .
response: The reason is that they &apos;re getting poisoned , and the reason that they &apos;re getting poisoned is because there &apos;s human-wildlife conflicts . The pastoral communities are using this poison to target predators , and in return , the vultures are falling victim to this .
infer: And the reason they are UNK is they &apos;re UNK because there &apos;s UNK among UNK UNK . UNK communities that are using their UNK to get into animals but rather , but UNK UNK are the victims . 
beam: And the reason for this is that they &apos;re being UNK , and they &apos;re UNK because there is UNK among UNK UNK . UNK communities that are using this UNK to the animals , but rather , the UNK UNK are the victims . 

post: Tại Nam Á , những nước như Ấn Độ và Pakistan , 4 loài kền kền được ghi danh trong danh sách những có nguy cơ cực cao điều này có nghĩa là chúng chỉ còn ít hơn 10 hoặc 15 năm để chạm đến mức tuyệt chủng và lí do đó là bởi vì chúng bị biến thành con mồi vì ăn phải gia súc đã được chữa trị bằng thuốc giảm đau như Diclofenac .
response: In South Asia , in countries like India and Pakistan , four species of vultures are listed as critically endangered , which means they have less than 10 or 15 years to go extinct , and the reason is because they are falling prey by consuming livestock that has been treated with a painkilling drug like Diclofenac .
infer: UNK , such as India , in UNK , UNK UNK , UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK . 
beam: It means they &apos;re less than 10 or 15 years to reach an UNK rate and that &apos;s because they turn out to be UNK because they &apos;re being treated for UNK being UNK . 

post: Thuốc này đã bị cấm sử dụng trong ngành thú y tại Ấn Độ Chúng đã minh chứng rằng
response: This drug has now been banned for veterinary use in India , and they have taken a stand .
infer: This discovery has been banned in India in India , and they have demonstrated that they are . 
beam: This discovery has been banned in India in India , in India , and they have demonstrated that it is . 

post: Vì không có kền kền nên mới có sự tràn lan về số lượng chó hoang tại những khu vực chứa rác thải xác động vật Khi bạn có chó hoang , bạn có một quả bom hẹn giờ khổng lồ về bệnh dại . Số ca mắc bệnh dại đã tăng rất nhiều tại Ấn Độ .
response: Because there are no vultures , there &apos;s been a spread in the numbers of feral dogs at carcass dump sites , and when you have feral dogs , you have a huge time bomb of rabies . The number of cases of rabies has increased tremendously in India .
infer: Without UNK UNK have a UNK UNK on the UNK of UNK , whether you have a UNK , you &apos;ve got a giant UNK UNK out of disease . The UNK cases has raised many in India . 
beam: Since no UNK UNK had to have a UNK UNK of UNK in the UNK of UNK , whether you have a UNK , you &apos;ve got a giant UNK UNK out of the disease . 

post: Kenya sẽ có một cánh đồng quạt gió lớn nhất tại Châu Phi với 353 động cơ sẽ được lắp tại Lake Turkana
response: Kenya is going to have one of the largest wind farms in Africa : 353 wind turbines are going to be up at Lake Turkana .
infer: Kenya &apos;s going to have a UNK UNK UNK in Africa with the UNK UNK in Lake UNK . 
beam: Kenya &apos;s going to have a UNK UNK UNK in Africa with an engine that &apos;s going to be built in Lake UNK . 

post: Tôi không phản đối năng lượng gió , nhưng chúng ta cần hợp tác với chính phủ , vì động cơ gió khiến những con chim thành thế này . Chúng cắt làm đôi .
response: I am not against wind energy , but we need to work with the governments , because wind turbines do this to birds . They slice them in half .
infer: I &apos;m not against the wind , but we &apos;re going to work with government , because the wind causes the birds to make this UNK . They cut out . 
beam: Now , I &apos;m not against the wind , but we &apos;re going to work with government , because the wind strikes the birds . They cut . 

post: Chúng là máy nghiền những chú chim .
response: They are bird-blending machines .
infer: They &apos;re UNK UNK . 
beam: They &apos;re UNK UNK . 

post: Tại Tây Phi có một ngành buôn bán kền kền chết thật kinh khủng để phục vụ cho thị trường ma thuật và bùa ngải .
response: In West Africa , there &apos;s a horrific trade of dead vultures to serve the witchcraft and the fetish market .
infer: In West Africa , there was a UNK trade UNK who was terrible enough to market with the UNK and UNK UNK . 
beam: In West Africa , there was a UNK trade UNK who would deal with UNK markets and UNK . 

post: Vậy chúng tôi đã làm được gì ? Chúng tôi đang tiến hành nghiên cứu về những chú chim này . Chúng tôi đang gắn máy phát tín hiệu vào chúng
response: So what &apos;s being done ? Well , we &apos;re conducting research on these birds . We &apos;re putting transmitters on them .
infer: So what did we do ? We were working on studying these birds . We &apos;re building signals in them . 
beam: So what did we do ? We were working on studying these birds . We were building signals in them . 

post: Chúng tôi đang cố gắng xác định sinh thái học cơ bản của chúng , và theo dấu nơi chúng đến .
response: We &apos;re trying to determine their basic ecology , and see where they go .
infer: We &apos;re trying to locate their muscle institutions , and in a UNK they come in . 
beam: We &apos;re trying to locate students , and UNK them . 

post: Chúng ta có thể thấy chúng di chuyển đến rất nhiều quốc gia khác nhau , vậy nên nếu bạn chỉ chú trọng đến những vấn đề trên quy mô khu vực , điều này sẽ chẳng giúp ích gì cho bạn cả .
response: We can see that they travel different countries , so if you focus on a problem locally , it &apos;s not going to help you .
infer: We can see they move towards a variety of different countries , so if you are paying on the problem of scale , this is nothing that doesn &apos;t help you anything . 
beam: We can see they move towards a variety of different countries , so if you &apos;re paying on the problems of the scale scale , it doesn &apos;t work for you . 

post: Chúng ta cần hợp tác với chính phủ trên mức độ vùng miền .
response: We need to work with governments in regional levels .
infer: We need to work with government on the area of the region . 
beam: We need to work with government on the area of the region . 

post: Chúng tôi đang hợp tác với những cộng đồng địa phương
response: We &apos;re working with local communities .
infer: We &apos;re working with local communities . 
beam: We &apos;re working with local communities . 

post: Chúng tôi đang nói với họ về việc quý trọng những con kền kền sự cần thiết nội tại cho việc trân trọng những sinh vật tuyệt vời này và những lợi ích mà chúng mang lại .
response: We &apos;re talking to them about appreciating vultures , about the need from within to appreciate these wonderful creatures and the services that they provide .
infer: We &apos;re talking to them about UNK UNK UNK who need to work for this cool UNK and the benefits that they carry . 
beam: We &apos;re talking to them about UNK UNK UNK &apos;s need to appreciate this amazing species and the benefits that they provide . 

post: Bạn làm thế nào để giúp ? bạn có thể trở thành một người năng động , tạo ra tiếng nói . Bạn có thể viết thư cho chính phủ của mình và nói với họ rằng chúng ta cần chú trọng vào những sinh vật bị hiểu lầm này . Tình nguyện bớt chút thời gian truyền đi thông điệp . Loan truyền thông điệp .
response: How can you help ? You can become active , make noise . You can write a letter to your government and tell them that we need to focus on these very misunderstood creatures . Volunteer your time to spread the word . Spread the word .
infer: How do you make it ? You can become a potential , you can write your government and say to them that we need to pay on the UNK . It &apos;s a little bit of time media messages . UNK message . 
beam: How do you make it possible ? You can become UNK , you can write your own government and say to them that we need to pay on the UNK . It &apos;s a little bit of time media messages . 

post: Khi bạn bước ra khỏi căn phòng này , bạn sẽ có được thông tin về những chú chim kền kền , nhưng hãy nói cho gia đình của bạn , con cái , hàng xóm về kền kền
response: When you walk out of this room , you will be informed about vultures , but speak to your families , to your children , to your neighbors about vultures .
infer: When you walk out of this room , you get information about UNK birds , but let &apos;s tell your family , kids , neighbors around UNK UNK . 
beam: When you walk out of this room , you get information about UNK birds , but let &apos;s tell your family , kids , neighbors around UNK UNK . 

post: Chúng rất duyên dáng . Charles Darwin đã nói Ông đổi ý kiến vì ông đã nhìn thấy chúng bay thư thái như không cần đến chút sức lực trên bầu trời .
response: They are very graceful . Charles Darwin said he changed his mind because he watched them fly effortlessly without energy in the skies .
infer: They were brilliant . Charles Darwin said he was going to change because he saw it as a UNK as possible to the sky . 
beam: They were brilliant . Charles Darwin said he understood it because he saw it didn &apos;t require a little bit of power in the sky . 

post: Kenya , thế giới này , sẽ nghèo hơn rất nhiều nếu như không có những loài vật tuyệt vời này .
response: Kenya , this world , will be much poorer without these wonderful species .
infer: Kenya , the world , will be much worse , if there are no such animals . 
beam: Kenya , the world , it &apos;s going to be much , much , much worse if there &apos;s no such animal species . 

post: Cám ơn rất nhiều .
response: Thank you very much .
infer: Thank you very much . 
beam: Thank you very much . 

post: Khi tôi 11 tuổi , Tôi nhớ một buổi sáng tôi thức dậy khi nghe tiếng hân hoan trong căn nhà của tôi .
response: When I was 11 , I remember waking up one morning to the sound of joy in my house .
infer: When I was 11 , I remember one morning , I woke up the UNK UNK I was feeling in my apartment . 
beam: When I was 11 , I remember the morning I woke up in the UNK of my apartment . 

post: Bố tôi lúc ấy đang nghe tin tức BBC trên chiếc radio màu xám nhỏ của ông ấy
response: My father was listening to BBC News on his small , gray radio .
infer: Now , my father was to hear the UNK of his little UNK on his little box . 
beam: Now he was listening to the UNK of his UNK radio radio . 

post: Ông ấy nở một nụ cười rất lớn , điều này rất bất thường vì tin tức thường làm ông ấy buồn rầu hơn .
response: There was a big smile on his face which was unusual then , because the news mostly depressed him .
infer: And he had a huge smile , which was very unusual because suddenly he was UNK himself to be UNK . 
beam: Now , he had a huge smile , which was very unusual because he was kind of UNK . 

post: Ông ấy la lên : &quot; Bọn Taliban đã đi rồi ! &quot;
response: &quot; The Taliban are gone ! &quot; my father shouted .
infer: And he goes , &quot; The Taliban already gone ! &quot; 
beam: And he goes , &quot; The Taliban have gone . &quot; 

post: Lúc đó tôi không hiểu rõ nhưng tôi có thể thấy rằng bố tôi rất , rất vui mừng
response: I didn &apos;t know what it meant , but I could see that my father was very , very happy .
infer: And I didn &apos;t know it very well , but I can see that my father is very , very excited . 
beam: And I didn &apos;t know it very well , but I can tell you I was very , very excited . 

post: &quot; Bây giờ con có thể thật sự đến trường rồi &quot; Ông nói .
response: &quot; You can go to a real school now , &quot; he said .
infer: &quot; Now she can really go in and &quot; he said . 
beam: &quot; Now she can actually go in and then he said . 

post: Một buổi sáng mà tôi không thể nào quên được .
response: A morning that I will never forget .
infer: One morning I can &apos;t forget . 
beam: One morning I can &apos;t forget . 

post: Một ngôi trường thật sự .
response: A real school .
infer: It &apos;s a real school . 
beam: An actual school . 

post: Bạn biết không , bọn Taliban đến xâm lấn Afghanistan từ khi tôi 6 tuổi và ngăn cấm các cô gái đi học .
response: You see , I was six when the Taliban took over Afghanistan and made it illegal for girls to go to school .
infer: You know , the Taliban came to Afghanistan UNK since I was six and removed girls to go to school . 
beam: You know , the Taliban would traveled Afghanistan since I was six and UNK girls from here . 

post: Trong 5 năm sau đó , tôi đã ăn mặc như 1 thằng con trai để đi cùng với chị tôi tới một trường bí mật vì chị tôi bị cấm ra khỏi nhà môt mình .
response: So for the next five years , I dressed as a boy to escort my older sister , who was no longer allowed to be outside alone , to a secret school .
infer: For five years , I &apos;ve been eaten like a boy to walk with my sister to a secret school because she &apos;s been cut out of the house . 
beam: For the next five years , I &apos;ve been eating like a boy to walk with my sister to a secret school because she &apos;s been cut out of the house . 

post: Đó là cách duy nhất để chúng tôi có thể đi học .
response: It was the only way we both could be educated .
infer: That &apos;s the only way for us to go to school . 
beam: That &apos;s the only way for us to go to school . 

post: Mỗi ngày , chúng tôi đi con đường khác nhau để không bị ai nghi ngờ về điểm đến của chúng tôi .
response: Each day , we took a different route so that no one would suspect where we were going .
infer: Every day , we &apos;re going to go on a different road and no one has no suspects from our point . 
beam: Every day , we &apos;re going to get a different road together and no one else from our point . 

post: Chúng tôi giấu sách vở trong giỏ đi chợ như thế mọi người sẽ nghĩ chúng tôi chỉ đi mua sắm .
response: We would cover our books in grocery bags so it would seem we were just out shopping .
infer: We run the textbook in the World game , so people will think we just go shopping . 
beam: We run a book in the UNK , so people will think we just go shopping . 

post: Cái trường ấy trong một căn nhà , hơn 100 đứa chúng tôi chen lấn trong một phòng khách nhỏ hẹp .
response: The school was in a house , more than 100 of us packed in one small living room .
infer: The same thing in the room was more than 100 and we UNK in a small UNK . 
beam: The same thing in the room was more than 100 and us UNK in a small UNK . 

post: Khá là ấm áp trong mùa đông nhưng mùa hè thì cực kì nóng .
response: It was cozy in winter but extremely hot in summer .
infer: It &apos;s pretty warm in winter , but that summer is extremely hot . 
beam: It &apos;s pretty warm in winter , but that summer is extremely hot . 

post: Tất cả chúng tôi đều biết đang mạo hiểm tính mạng của chính mình thầy cô , học sinh và cha mẹ chúng tôi .
response: We all knew we were risking our lives -- the teacher , the students and our parents .
infer: We &apos;re all learning to be taking his own UNK UNK , students , students and parents . 
beam: We all know we &apos;re taking our own UNK and our parents . 

post: Có một vài lần , ngôi trường đột nhiên đóng cửa khoảng một tuần vì lũ Taliban nghi ngờ .
response: From time to time , the school would suddenly be canceled for a week because Taliban were suspicious .
infer: And there are a few times , and the news suddenly closes for a week for UNK UNK . 
beam: Sometimes a couple of times , the news suddenly closed home a week for UNK UNK . 

post: Chúng tôi luôn tự hỏi họ biết gì về chúng tôi .
response: We always wondered what they knew about us .
infer: We always wondered what they knew about us . 
beam: We always wondered what they knew about us . 

post: Chúng tôi có bị theo dõi không ?
response: Were we being followed ?
infer: Are we watching ? 
beam: Are we watching ? 

post: Họ có biết chỗ chúng tôi ở không ?
response: Do they know where we live ?
infer: Do they know where we are ? 
beam: Do they know where we are ? 

post: Chúng tôi đã rất sợ , nhưng dù vậy , chúng tôi vẫn muốn tới trường .
response: We were scared , but still , school was where we wanted to be .
infer: We were so scared , but no matter , we wanted to go to school . 
beam: We were so scared , but no matter , we wanted to go to school . 

post: Tôi rất may mắn được nuôi dạy trong một gia đình rất trân trọng việc học và con gái được quý trọng .
response: I was very lucky to grow up in a family where education was prized and daughters were treasured .
infer: I &apos;m very lucky that we have a long time to raise in a very serious family , and this is important . 
beam: I &apos;m very lucky to be raised in a very serious family , and this is important . 

post: Ông ngoại của tôi là một người thật đáng khâm phục vào thời ấy
response: My grandfather was an extraordinary man for his time .
infer: My grandfather was a very UNK person that was UNK at that point . 
beam: My grandfather was a very UNK , UNK guy . 

post: Một người hoàn toàn bị ruồng bỏ từ một tỉnh xa ở Afghanistan , ông nài nỉ để con gái ông , mẹ của tôi được đến trường , và vì vậy nên ông bị cha của ông ấy từ bỏ .
response: A total maverick from a remote province of Afghanistan , he insisted that his daughter , my mom , go to school , and for that he was disowned by his father .
infer: One was entirely UNK from a long UNK in Afghanistan , UNK to his daughter , my mother came to school , so he got his father quit . 
beam: One was entirely UNK from one guy away in Afghanistan , and he UNK to his mother , my mother came to school , so he got his father quit . 

post: Nhưng người mẹ có giáo dục của tôi trở thành giáo viên .
response: But my educated mother became a teacher .
infer: But my mother had an education teacher to be a teacher . 
beam: But my mother had an education teacher to be a teacher . 

post: Bà ấy đây .
response: There she is .
infer: She &apos;s here . 
beam: She &apos;s here . 

post: Bà nghỉ hưu 2 năm về trước để dùng nhà của chúng tôi để mở trường cho bé gái và phụ nữ trong hàng xóm .
response: She retired two years ago , only to turn our house into a school for girls and women in our neighborhood .
infer: She took care two years ago to spend our house in order to provide girls and women in her neighbors . 
beam: She took care two years ago to spend our house in order to provide girls and women in her neighbors . 

post: Và đây là bố của tôi ông là người đầu tiên trong gia đình của ông ấy được giáo dục .
response: And my father -- that &apos;s him -- he was the first ever in his family to receive an education .
infer: And this is my father who first was his first family ever in his family . 
beam: And this is my father who was his first person in his family . 

post: Không nghi ngờ rằng con cái của ông ấy sẽ được giáo dục , bao gồm con gái của ông , bất chấp Taliban , và bất chấp những hiểm nguy .
response: There was no question that his children would receive an education , including his daughters , despite the Taliban , despite the risks .
infer: No doubt that his children will be education , including his daughter , regardless of UNK , and UNK . 
beam: No doubt that his children will be education , including his UNK , UNK , and UNK . 

post: Đối với ông , con cái không được học là mối nguy hiểm lớn hơn cả .
response: To him , there was greater risk in not educating his children .
infer: To him , it &apos;s not that UNK is a greater risk . 
beam: To him , it &apos;s not that UNK is a greater risk . 

post: Trong những năm Taliban , tôi nhớ rằng có những lúc tôi rất tức giận về cuộc sống của chúng tôi và luôn sợ hãi và không thấy được tương lai .
response: During Taliban years , I remember there were times I would get so frustrated by our life and always being scared and not seeing a future .
infer: In the 1990s , I remember that there were times I was really angry about our lives and were scared and wasn &apos;t going to see the future . 
beam: In the 1990s , I remember that there were times when I was so frustrated about our lives and were always afraid and couldn &apos;t see the future . 

post: Tôi rất muốn từ bỏ chuyện học , nhưng bố tôi , ông sẽ nói rằng , &quot; Nghe này con gái , con có thể mất hết mọi thứ con có trên cuộc đời này
response: I would want to quit , but my father , he would say , &quot; Listen , my daughter , you can lose everything you own in your life .
infer: I would love to quit that , but my father , he would say , &quot; Listen , you know , you can lose all this thing on this planet . 
beam: I wanted to quit school , but my father , he would say , &quot; Listen , you know , you can lose all kinds of things that have this life . 

post: Tiền của con có thể bị cướp mất . Con có thể bị buộc phải rời khỏi nhà trong thời gian chiến tranh .
response: Your money can be stolen . You can be forced to leave your home during a war .
infer: You can have a lost UNK ; you can be forced left from the war during war . 
beam: You can have a lost UNK ; you could be forced left from the war during war . 

post: Nhưng một thứ sẽ mãi mãi tồn tại với con là thứ trong đây , và nếu chúng ta bị bắt buộc phải bán máu để trả tiền học phì , chúng ta sẽ làm thế .
response: But the one thing that will always remain with you is what is here , and if we have to sell our blood to pay your school fees , we will .
infer: But the thing that &apos;s going to happen to exist to you is something here , and if we &apos;re forced to UNK to sell our blood to pay attention , we are going to do that . 
beam: But the thing that &apos;s going to happen to exist is something in here , and if we are forced to UNK to sell our blood to pay attention , we do . 

post: Vậy thì con còn muốn tiếp tục nữa không ?
response: So do you still not want to continue ? &quot;
infer: So , does I want to go on ? 
beam: Then you want to go on ? 

post: Hôm nay tôi 22 tuổi .
response: Today I am 22 .
infer: I &apos;m 22 years old . 
beam: I &apos;m 22 years old . 

post: Tôi đã được lớn lên ở một quốc gia đã bị tiêu huỷ bởi bao thập niên chiến tranh .
response: I was raised in a country that has been destroyed by decades of war .
infer: I was raised up in a country that was UNK by the UNK &apos; war . 
beam: I was raised up in a country that was UNK by the UNK &apos; war . 

post: Ít hơn 6 % phụ nữ tuổi tôi được học sau trung học phổ thông , và nếu gia đình tôi không cam kết về việc học của tôi , tôi cũng trở thành một trong số họ .
response: Fewer than six percent of women my age have made it beyond high school , and had my family not been so committed to my education , I would be one of them .
infer: Less than six percent of women I was taught from school on high school , and if my family were UNK about studying me , I became one of them . 
beam: Less than six percent of women I was school after high school after school , and if my family were UNK about studying me , I became one of them . 

post: Nhưng mà , tôi hãnh diện đứng đây là một sinh viên tốt nghiệp trường Cao Đẳng Middlebury .
response: Instead , I stand here a proud graduate of Middlebury College .
infer: But , I am proud to stand here as a graduate student at UNK UNK UNK . 
beam: But , I am proud to stand here as a graduate student at UNK UNK UNK . 

post: Khi tôi trở về Afghanistan , ông ngoại tôi , người bị ruồng bỏ bởi gia đình vì ông dám cho con gái của ông đi học , là một trong những người đầu tiên chúc mừng tôi .
response: When I returned to Afghanistan , my grandfather , the one exiled from his home for daring to educate his daughters , was among the first to congratulate me .
infer: When I went back to Afghanistan , he was UNK away by his family , because he would dare to let him go to school , as one of the first people to celebrate me . 
beam: When I went back to Afghanistan , he was UNK away by his family who would dare his daughter go to school , be one of the first ones to celebrate me . 

post: Ông ấy không những khoe về bằng cao đẳng của tôi , mà còn về tôi là người phụ nữ đầu tiên , và tôi là người phụ nữ đầu tiên có thể chở ông ấy trên những con đường ở Kabul .
response: He not only brags about my college degree , but also that I was the first woman , and that I am the first woman to drive him through the streets of Kabul .
infer: He didn &apos;t UNK about my UNK , but my UNK , I was the first woman to UNK him on the streets of Kabul . 
beam: He didn &apos;t UNK about my UNK , but also about me was the first woman , and I was the first woman to UNK him on the streets of Kabul . 

post: Gia đình tôi tin tưởng tôi .
response: My family believes in me .
infer: My family trust me . 
beam: My family trust me . 

post: Tôi mơ ước lớn , nhưng gia đình tôi mong ước cho tôi còn lớn hơn .
response: I dream big , but my family dreams even bigger for me .
infer: I dream big dreams , but my family wanted to be bigger . 
beam: I dream big wish , but my family wanted for me to be bigger . 

post: Vì thế tôi là đại sứ toàn cầu cho 10x10 , đây là cuộc vận động toàn cầu để giáo dục phụ nữ .
response: That &apos;s why I am a global ambassador for 10x10 , a global campaign to educate women .
infer: So I was a global UNK , and this is a global movement for women to educate . 
beam: So I was the global UNK for UNK , and this is a global movement of education . 

post: Vì vậy tôi giúp thành lập SOLA , ngôi trường đầu tiên và hẳn là duy nhất cho con gái ở Afghanistan , một đất nước mà vẫn còn nguy hiểm cho các cô gái đến trường học
response: That &apos;s why I cofounded SOLA , the first and perhaps only boarding school for girls in Afghanistan , a country where it &apos;s still risky for girls to go to school .
infer: So I made the UNK , the first and the only one , and it was only the one for girls to go to school . 
beam: So I made the UNK , the first and the only middle of the school in Afghanistan , a country that was still dangerous for girls to go to school . 

post: Tôi rất phấn khởi khi thấy học sinh đến trường của tôi với kì vọng để nắm lấy cơ hội này .
response: The exciting thing is that I see students at my school with ambition grabbing at opportunity .
infer: I was very excited to see my students with the hopes to take this opportunity . 
beam: I was very excited to see my students with the hopes to take this opportunity . 

post: Và tôi thấy cha mẹ họ và bố họ như cha của tôi , ủng hộ họ , bất chấp và ngay cả khi đang gặp nhiều đối lập khó khăn .
response: And I see their parents and their fathers who , like my own , advocate for them , despite and even in the face of daunting opposition .
infer: And I saw my parents and father , in UNK , and even with a very difficult time . 
beam: And I saw my parents and fathers them as my father , who UNK me , and even having a lot of trouble . 

post: Như Ahmed . Đó không phải là tên thật của ông ấy , và tôi không thể lộ mặt của ông ấy được , nhưng Ahmed là cha của một học sinh của tôi .
response: Like Ahmed . That &apos;s not his real name , and I cannot show you his face , but Ahmed is the father of one of my students .
infer: It was like UNK . It wasn &apos;t his fault , and I couldn &apos;t show his face , but Ahmed was a father of mine . 
beam: It wasn &apos;t his fault , and I couldn &apos;t show his face , but Ahmed was my father &apos;s father . 

post: Ít hơn một tháng rồi , ông và con gái ông đang trên đường tới SOLA từ làng của họ , và họ thật sự chỉ xém bị giết chết vì một quả bom bên đường chỉ trong vài phút .
response: Less than a month ago , he and his daughter were on their way from SOLA to their village , and they literally missed being killed by a roadside bomb by minutes .
infer: Less than a month , he and his daughter was on their way to their village , and they were actually UNK died for a bomb in the sugar of just a few minutes . 
beam: Less than a month ago , he and his daughter was on their way to UNK from their village , and they were literally just killed for a bomb in the sugar of only a few minutes . 

post: Khi ông vừa về tới nhà , điện thoại reng , một giọng nói đe doạ ông nếu ông tiếp tục đưa con gái ông tới trường , họ sẽ thử lần nữa .
response: As he arrived home , the phone rang , a voice warning him that if he sent his daughter back to school , they would try again .
infer: When he got home , she UNK , a voice that threatened him , if he had a bullet to get his daughter in school , they tried it again . 
beam: When he was talking home , UNK UNK , a voice he had said he was going to get him in school , and they &apos;ll try again . 

post: Ông ấy trả lời : &quot; Nếu ngươi muốn thì giết tôi đi , nhưng tôi sẽ không huỷ hoại tương lai của con gái tôi vì những tư tưởng lạc hậu và ngược đời của các người &quot;
response: &quot; Kill me now , if you wish , &quot; he said , &quot; but I will not ruin my daughter &apos;s future because of your old and backward ideas . &quot;
infer: And he said , &quot; If you want to get me , kill me , but I won &apos;t end my daughter for UNK and UNK thinking . &quot; 
beam: And he said , &quot; If you want to get me , kill me , but I &apos;m not going to fail my daughter for UNK and UNK thinking . &quot; 

post: Tôi bây giờ đã nhận thấy về Afghanistan , và đây là thứ thường bị bỏ qua ở Tây phương , là đằng sau hầu hết mỗi người thành công chúng ta là một người cha trân trọng giá trị của con gái họ và người thấy thành công của con gái mình như là thành công của chính họ .
response: What I &apos;ve come to realize about Afghanistan , and this is something that is often dismissed in the West , that behind most of us who succeed is a father who recognizes the value in his daughter and who sees that her success is his success .
infer: Now I have noticed in Afghanistan , and this is what UNK in Western , and this is what is often UNK in Western , and that &apos;s what is the UNK thing that we have as a UNK value of their daughter &apos;s value , and the successful people
beam: Now I have noticed in Afghanistan , and this is the UNK thing that I &apos;ve been left in Western , and this is the UNK thing that we &apos;ve been working on in the West , and this is the UNK thing that we have as a UNK value

post: Đây không phải nói người mẹ không quan trọng trong thành công của chúng ta .
response: It &apos;s not to say that our mothers aren &apos;t key in our success .
infer: This is not the mother who doesn &apos;t tell us how much it is in our success . 
beam: This is not an UNK mother in our success . 

post: Thật ra , họ là người đầu tiên và là người thương thuyết thuyết phục cho một tương lai sáng của con gái họ , nhưng trong hoàn cảnh xã hội như Afghanistan , chúng ta cần đến sự ủng hộ của những người đàn ông .
response: In fact , they &apos;re often the initial and convincing negotiators of a bright future for their daughters , but in the context of a society like in Afghanistan , we must have the support of men .
infer: Rather , they &apos;re the first and UNK compelling to a future of their daughter , but in our societies , we need to go to the UNK of men . 
beam: In fact , they &apos;re the first and UNK UNK for a UNK of the daughter , but in the society of the world , we need to go to the UNK of men . 

post: Dưới Taliban , những cô gái đến trường cả hàng trăm người nhớ rằng , đó là bất hợp pháp .
response: Under the Taliban , girls who went to school numbered in the hundreds -- remember , it was illegal .
infer: And under the Taliban , there was a hundred UNK girls who remembered , and that was illegal . 
beam: In the Taliban , the women who went to school for hundreds of people remembers , it was illegal . 

post: Nhưng ngày hôm nay , hơn 3 triệu nữ sinh đang theo học ở Afghanistan
response: But today , more than three million girls are in school in Afghanistan .
infer: But today , over three million young women are in Afghanistan . 
beam: But today , over three million young women are in Afghanistan . 

post: Afghanistan nhìn rất khác khi nhìn từ Mỹ .
response: Afghanistan looks so different from here in America .
infer: And I different looked at the U.S. 
beam: And I looked different from the United States . 

post: Tôi thấy rằng người Mỹ thấy sự yếu ớt , dễ vỡ trong những thay đổi .
response: I find that Americans see the fragility in changes .
infer: I found that the American UNK are fragile , fragile in the change . 
beam: I found that Americans see UNK , UNK in the change . 

post: Tôi sợ rằng tất cả những thay đổi đó sẽ không kéo dài hơn sau khi quân đội Mỹ rút đi .
response: I fear that these changes will not last much beyond the U.S. troops &apos; withdrawal .
infer: I fear all those changes won &apos;t get back for the fact that the British military takes away . 
beam: I fear that all those changes are not going to go longer after the American military takes away . 

post: Nhưng khi tôi trở về Afghanistan , khi tôi thấy học sinh trong trường của tôi và cha mẹ họ ủng hộ họ , khuyến khích họ , tôi thấy một tương lai hứa hẹn và sự thay đổi sẽ tồn tại lâu dài .
response: But when I am back in Afghanistan , when I see the students in my school and their parents who advocate for them , who encourage them , I see a promising future and lasting change .
infer: But when I got back to Afghanistan , when I saw my students and my parents were supportive , they UNK them , and I see a promise and dramatic UNK and dramatic change . 
beam: But when I got back to Afghanistan , when I saw my students and my parents were supporting them , they UNK them , and I see a promise and a promise and change would last a long time . 

post: Đối với tôi , Afghanistan là một đất nước của hy vọng , khả năng không giới hạn , và mỗi ngày nữ sinh trường SOLA nhắc nhở tôi về điều đó .
response: To me , Afghanistan is a country of hope and boundless possibilities , and every single day the girls of SOLA remind me of that .
infer: For me , Afghanistan is a country of hopefully , the ability for limitless , and every day that UNK UNK reminds me of that . 
beam: For me , Afghanistan was a country of hope , capacity for respect , and every day that UNK UNK reminds me of that . 

post: Như tôi , họ có mơ ước lớn .
response: Like me , they are dreaming big .
infer: Like me , they had a big wish . 
beam: Like I , they dream big . 

post: Cám ơn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Xin chào . Đây là chiếc điện thoại di động của tôi .
response: Hi . This is my mobile phone .
infer: Hi . This is my cell phone . 
beam: Hi . This is my cell phone . 

post: Một chiếc điện thoại di động có thể thay đổi cuộc sống của bạn , và một chiếc điện thoại cũng mang lại cho bạn tự do cá nhân .
response: A mobile phone can change your life , and a mobile phone gives you individual freedom .
infer: A cell phone can change your life , and a phone gives you to free freedom . 
beam: A cell phone can change your life , and a phone gives you free freedom . 

post: Với một chiếc điện thoại di động , bạn có thể ghi lại hình ảnh những hành động xâm phạm nhân quyền ở Syria .
response: With a mobile phone , you can shoot a crime against humanity in Syria .
infer: With a mobile phone , you can record the UNK UNK agents of the federal UNK action . 
beam: With a mobile phone , you can record the UNK action agents in Syria . 

post: Với một chiếc điện thoại di động , bạn cũng có thể đăng tải một thông điệp trên Tweeter và bắt đầu tham gia một cuộc biểu tình phản đối chính phủ ở Ai Cập .
response: With a mobile phone , you can tweet a message and start a protest in Egypt .
infer: With a cell phone , you can post a UNK message and start part of a protest against government in Egypt . 
beam: With a cell phone , you can post a UNK message and start part of a protest against government in Egypt . 

post: Và cũng với một chiếc điện thoại bạn có thể ghi âm một bài hát , đăng tải nó lên SoundCloud và trở nên nổi tiếng .
response: And with a mobile phone , you can record a song , load it up to SoundCloud and become famous .
infer: And also with a phone you can note a song , post it on UNK and become famous . 
beam: And also with a phone you can note a song , post it on UNK and become famous . 

post: Tất cả những điều đó hoàn toàn có thể chỉ với chiếc điện thoại di động của bạn .
response: All this is possible with your mobile phone .
infer: All that &apos;s completely UNK with your cellphone phone . 
beam: All that &apos;s completely UNK with your cellphone phone . 

post: Tôi là một đứa trẻ của năm 1984 , và tôi sống ở thành phố Berlin .
response: I &apos;m a child of 1984 , and I live in the city of Berlin .
infer: I &apos;m a UNK of 1984 , and I live in a city of UNK . 
beam: I was a UNK of 1984 , and I live in a city of UNK . 

post: Hãy cùng quay lại thời điểm đó , tại thành phố này .
response: Let &apos;s go back to that time , to this city .
infer: Let &apos;s go back to that time , this city . 
beam: Let &apos;s go back at that time , this city . 

post: Bạn có thể thấy ở đây cách mà hàng ngàn người dân đứng lên và biểu tình cho sự thay đổi .
response: Here you can see how hundreds of thousands of people stood up and protested for change .
infer: You can see it how thousands of people stood up and represent the change . 
beam: You can see it how thousands of people stood up and represent the change . 

post: Đó là vào mùa thu năm 1989 , và hãy tưởng tượng những con người đã đứng lên và biểu tình đòi sự thay đổi đó có một chiếc điện thoại di động trong túi .
response: This is autumn 1989 , and imagine that all those people standing up and protesting for change had a mobile phone in their pocket .
infer: It was in the fall of 1989 , and imagine the people who stood up and showed the change having a cell phone in their pocket . 
beam: It was in the fall of 1989 , and imagine the people who stood up and showed the change having a cell phone in their pocket . 

post: Những ai trong khán phòng có điện thoại di động ?
response: Who in the room has a mobile phone with you ?
infer: Who in the audience have cell phones ? 
beam: Who in the audience have cell phones ? 

post: Hãy giơ nó lên .
response: Hold it up .
infer: Raise it up . 
beam: Raise it up . 

post: Hãy giơ chiếc điện thoại của bạn lên , hãy giơ cao chiếc điện thoại của bạn lên !
response: Hold your phones up , hold your phones up !
infer: Raise your phone up , raise your phone station ! 
beam: Get your phone up , raise your phone up ! 

post: Hãy giơ cao nó lên . Một chiếc điện thoại Android , Blackberry , wow .
response: Hold it up . An Android , a Blackberry , wow .
infer: So raise it up . You know , a UNK phone , UNK , sorry , sorry . 
beam: UNK it up . A UNK phone , UNK , sorry . 

post: Rất nhiều . Ngày nay , phần lớn chúng ta đều có một chiếc điện thoại di động .
response: That &apos;s a lot . Almost everybody today has a mobile phone .
infer: Many . Today , most of us have a mobile phone . 
beam: A lot . Today , most of us have a mobile phone . 

post: Nhưng hôm nay tôi sẽ nói về bản thân và chiếc điện thoại của tôi , và về cách mà nó đã thay đổi cuộc đời mình .
response: But today I will talk about me and my mobile phone , and how it changed my life .
infer: But today I &apos;m going to talk about my self and my phone , and how it has changed my life . 
beam: But today I &apos;m going to talk about my self and my phone , and how it has changed my life . 

post: Tôi sẽ nói về điều đó .
response: And I will talk about this .
infer: I &apos;ll talk about that . 
beam: I &apos;ll talk about that . 

post: Có khoảng 35830 dãy thông tin .
response: These are 35,830 lines of information .
infer: There &apos;s UNK and pieces of information . 
beam: There are UNK pieces of information . 

post: Những thông tin thuần sơ cấp .
response: Raw data .
infer: UNK information . 
beam: UNK information . 

post: Nhưng tại sao những thông tin đó lại ở đây ?
response: And why are these informations there ?
infer: But why is that information over here ? 
beam: But why is that information over here ? 

post: Nguyên nhân là do mùa hè năm 2006 , Uỷ ban châu Âu đã đề xuất một chỉ thị chính thức .
response: Because in the summer of 2006 , the E.U. Commission tabled a directive .
infer: And the reason , by the summer , by 2006 , European Commission argued a official marketplace . 
beam: The reason was that in the summer of 2006 , the European Commission came for a official marketplace . 

post: Nó được gọi là Chỉ thị bảo lưu dữ liệu .
response: This directive &#91; is &#93; called Data Retention Directive .
infer: It &apos;s called UNK data . 
beam: It &apos;s called UNK data . 

post: Chỉ thị này cho biết mỗi công ty viễn thông ở châu Âu , mỗi nhà cung cấp dịch vụ Internet trên toàn lãnh thổ châu Âu , đều phải lưu trữ một lượng lớn thông tin về những người sử dụng .
response: This directive says that each phone company in Europe , each Internet service company all over Europe , has to store a wide range of information about the users .
infer: This market is just showing you a UNK agency in Europe , and every one of us UNK across Europe , both have to UNK vast amounts of information about the history . 
beam: This market is only aware of each UNK UNK in Europe , and every UNK service service on European Europe , both UNK vast information information about users . 

post: Ai là người gọi cho những ai ? Ai là người đã gửi cho ai đó email ?
response: Who calls whom ? Who sends whom an email ?
infer: Who called those who call anybody , who is an email ? 
beam: Who who call up someone who &apos;s calling them an email ? 

post: Ai đã gửi cho ai những tin nhắn di động ?
response: Who sends whom a text message ?
infer: Who sent anybody ? 
beam: Who sent anybody ? 

post: Và nếu bạn sử dụng điện thoại di động , thì đây chính là nơi mà vấn đề tồn tại .
response: And if you use your mobile phone , where you are .
infer: And if you use mobile phones , this is where the problem existed . 
beam: And if you use mobile phones , this is where the problem existed . 

post: Tất cả những thông tin này đều được lưu trữ ít nhất trong sáu tháng , cho tới hai năm bởi nhà mạng bạn đang sử dụng hoặc nhà cung cấp dịch vụ Internet .
response: All this information is stored for at least six months , up to two years by your phone company or your Internet service provider .
infer: All of this information is stored at least six months , until the next two years of the house or the UNK provider service . 
beam: All of this information has been stored at least six months , until the next couple of years because the house is using the Internet service or service service service . 

post: Và ở khắp châu Âu , người dân đã đứng lên và nói , &quot; Chúng tôi không muốn như vậy &quot; .
response: And all over Europe , people stood up and said , &quot; We don &apos;t want this . &quot;
infer: And then in all over Europe , people stood up and said , &quot; We don &apos;t want that . &quot; 
beam: And across Europe , people stood up and said , &quot; We don &apos;t want that . &quot; 

post: Họ nói , chúng tôi không muốn sự lưu trữ thông tin cá nhân này .
response: They said , we don &apos;t want this data retention .
infer: They say , we don &apos;t want to have this individual archive . 
beam: They say , we don &apos;t want this individual archive . 

post: Chúng tôi muốn có được sự tự chủ trong thời đại công nghệ số , và chúng tôi không muốn rằng các công ty viễn thông và nhà cung cấp dịch vụ Internet lưu trữ lại tất cả các thông tin của mình .
response: We want self-determination in the digital age , and we don &apos;t want that phone companies and Internet companies have to store all this information about us .
infer: We want to get UNK in digital era , and we don &apos;t want to see the UNK and the UNK service service all their information . 
beam: We want to get UNK in digital era , and we don &apos;t want that company UNK and UNK service service all their information . 

post: Họ là những luật sư , nhà báo và cả những cha xứ , tất cả đều nói rằng : &quot; Chúng tôi không muốn như vậy &quot;
response: They were lawyers , journalists , priests , they all said : &quot; We don &apos;t want this . &quot;
infer: They were the lawyers , the UNK and the UNK , all said , &quot; We don &apos;t want it . &quot; 
beam: They were lawyers , journalists and fathers , all say , &quot; We don &apos;t want that . &quot; 

post: Và bạn có thể thấy trên đây , giống như 10000 người dân tham gia diễu hành trên đường phố Berlin và hô vang khẩu hiệu &quot; Tự do , không sợ hãi &quot;
response: And here you can see , like 10 thousands of people went out on the streets of Berlin and said , &quot; Freedom , not fear . &quot;
infer: And you can see here in the audience , like a bunch of people to engage on the streets of UNK and the UNK UNK , &quot; UNK , UNK . &quot; 
beam: And you can see here , like 600,000 people walk on the streets of UNK and the UNK UNK , &quot; UNK , UNK . &quot; 

post: Và một vài người thậm chí đã nói , nó giống như Stasi 2.0 .
response: And some even said , this would be Stasi 2.0 .
infer: And some people said , it was more like UNK 2.0 . 
beam: And some people have said , it &apos;s like UNK 2.0 . 

post: Stasi là lực lượng cảnh sát mật hoạt động ở Đông Đức .
response: Stasi was the secret police in East Germany .
infer: UNK is the UNK UNK of the UNK East . 
beam: The UNK is actually the rise of UNK in East Germany . 

post: Tôi cũng đã từng tự hỏi , thực tế nó có hoạt động không ?
response: And I also ask myself , does it really work ?
infer: I &apos;ve had wondered , how did it work ? 
beam: I &apos;ve had wondered , how did it work ? 

post: Liệu họ có thể lưu lại toàn bộ thông tin của chúng ta không ?
response: Can they really store all this information about us ?
infer: Could they save all of our information ? 
beam: Could they save all of our information ? 

post: Mỗi khi chúng ta sử dụng điện thoại di động của mình ?
response: Every time I use my mobile phone ?
infer: Every time we use our cell phone ? 
beam: Whenever we use our cell phones ? 

post: Do đó tôi đã yêu cầu nhà mạng mình sử dụng , Deutsche Telekom , nhà cung cấp dịch vụ viễn thông lớn nhất của Đức tại thời điểm đó , và tôi đã yêu cầu họ , làm ơn , hãy gửi cho tôi toàn bộ thông tin của tôi mà họ đã lưu trữ .
response: So I asked my phone company , Deutsche Telekom , which was at that time the largest phone company in Germany , and I asked them , please , send me all the information you have stored about me .
infer: So I asked my house to use , UNK UNK , the biggest UNK service at that time , and I asked them , please , send me my entire information that they had stored . 
beam: So I asked my house to use , UNK UNK , the biggest UNK service at that time , and I asked them , please , send me my entire information that they had stored . 

post: Tôi đã yêu cầu họ hãy gửi cho tôi chỉ một lần thôi , và tôi đã tiếp tục yêu cầu , nhưng cái mà tôi nhận được chỉ là một câu trả lời không rõ ràng . Blah blah blah .
response: And I asked them once , and I asked them again , and I got no real answer . It was only blah blah answers .
infer: I asked them to send me one or another , and I was going on my quest , but what I was getting was just an answer answer . UNK Mother blah . 
beam: I asked them , let me send me just one person , and I went on asking , but what I was getting was just an answer answer . The piece of UNK . 

post: Nhưng sau đó tôi đã nói , tôi muốn có được những thông tin này , bởi vì họ đang lưu trữ cuộc sống của tôi .
response: But then I said , I want to have this information , because this is my life you are protocoling .
infer: But then I said , I want to have these information , because they &apos;re saving my life . 
beam: But then I said , I want to have these information , because they &apos;re saving my life . 

post: Và tôi đã quyết định sẽ gửi đơn kiện tới toà án , bởi lẽ tôi muốn có được những thông tin này .
response: So I decided to start a lawsuit against them , because I wanted to have this information .
infer: And I decided to go on to the building , because I want to get these facts . 
beam: And I decided that I would have to scale up to the building , because I would want to have these information . 

post: Nhưng Deutsche Telekom đã nói , không , chúng tôi sẽ không cung cấp cho bạn những thông tin này .
response: But Deutsche Telekom said , no , we will not give you this information .
infer: But UNK UNK said , no , we &apos;re not going to provide you with this information . 
beam: But UNK UNK said , no , we &apos;re not going to give you this information . 

post: Và cuối cùng , tôi đã có một thoả thuận với họ .
response: So at the end , I had a settlement with them .
infer: And finally , I had a deal with them . 
beam: And finally , I had a deal with them . 

post: Tôi sẽ huỷ đơn kiện , và họ sẽ cung cấp cho tôi những thông tin tôi yêu cầu .
response: I &apos;ll put down the lawsuit and they will send me all the information I ask for .
infer: I would UNK the situation , and they would give me the information that I asked . 
beam: I would UNK , and they would give me the information that I asked . 

post: Bởi vì tại thời điểm đó , toà án hiến pháp liên bang đã quy định rằng chỉ thị của Uỷ ban châu Âu này không có hiệu lực trong hệ thống hiến pháp của nước Đức
response: Because in the mean time , the German Constitutional Court ruled that the implementation of this E.U. directive into German law was unconstitutional .
infer: Because at that time , the state UNK was determined that the European &apos;s market was not in charge of the German constitution system . 
beam: Because at that time , the state UNK was determined that the European UNK market was not the power in the German constitution system . 

post: Do đó tôi đã nhận được chiếc phong bì màu nâu xấu xí này với một chiếc đĩa CD ở bên trong .
response: So I got this ugly brown envelope with a C.D. inside .
infer: So I received this funny brown envelope with a internal UNK inside . 
beam: So I received this dirty brown UNK with a internal UNK inside . 

post: Và trên chiếc đĩa CD , cái tôi cần đã được ghi trên đó .
response: And on the C.D. , this was on .
infer: And on the bow , what I have to be recorded on it . 
beam: And on the bow , what I have is recorded on it . 

post: 35830 dãy các thông tin .
response: Thirty-five thousand eight hundred thirty lines of information .
infer: UNK of information . 
beam: UNK of information . 

post: Đầu tiên tôi nhìn nó , và nói , được rồi . Nó là một file dữ liệu lớn . Tốt .
response: At first I saw it , and I said , okay , it &apos;s a huge file . Okay .
infer: First , I looked at it , and I said , okay , it &apos;s a big data of data . Good . 
beam: First , I looked at it , and I said , okay , it &apos;s a big data of data . Good . 

post: Nhưng sau đó tôi đã nhận ra , đây là toàn bộ cuộc sống của mình .
response: But then after a while I realized , this is my life .
infer: But then I realized , this is all of my life . 
beam: But then I realized , this is all my life . 

post: Đây là cuộc sống trong sáu tháng của tôi , đã được ghi lại toàn bộ trong tệp dữ liệu này .
response: This is six months of my life , into this file .
infer: This is my UNK in six months , which is recorded full of this data . 
beam: This is my UNK in six months , which is recorded full of this data . 

post: Sau đó tôi có băn khoăn một chút , nên làm gì với nó đây ?
response: So I was a little bit skeptical , what should I do with it ?
infer: And then I was going to ask a little bit , so what should I do with this ? 
beam: Then I had a question , what should I do with this ? 

post: Bởi vì tôi có thể thấy những nơi tôi đã đến đó , nơi tôi ngủ mỗi đêm , những việc tôi đã làm .
response: Because you can see where I am , where I sleep at night , what I am doing .
infer: Because I could see where I visited , I &apos;d go sleeping at a night , which I was doing . 
beam: Because I could see where I went there , where I slept each night , what I did . 

post: Nhưng sau đó tôi đã nói , tôi muốn công khai những thông tin này .
response: But then I said , I want to go out with this information .
infer: But then I said , I want to address this information . 
beam: But then I said , I want to address this information . 

post: Tôi muốn nó được biết đến bởi công chúng .
response: I want to make them public .
infer: I wanted it to be found by the public . 
beam: I wanted it to be found by the public . 

post: Bởi lẽ tôi muốn cho mọi người thấy sự bảo lưu dữ liệu thật sự là như thế nào .
response: Because I want to show the people what does data retention mean .
infer: Because I want to show people how to data really is . 
beam: Because I want to show people how much data data is . 

post: Do vậy đối với Zeit Online và Open Data City , tôi cũng làm điều tương tự .
response: So together with Zeit Online and Open Data City , I did this .
infer: So for UNK Online and the UNK , I was doing the same thing . 
beam: So for the UNK Online Project and the UNK UNK , I also did the same thing . 

post: Đây là những hình ảnh trực quan về cuộc sống trong sáu tháng đã được ghi lại của tôi .
response: This is a visualization of six months of my life .
infer: These are visual images of the UNK that UNK of the UNK that are shot in the six months . 
beam: These are visual images of their lives of six months . 

post: Bạn có thể phóng to hoặc thu nhỏ nó , bạn cũng có thể tua ngược trở lại hoặc nhanh hơn về phía trước .
response: You can zoom in and zoom out , you can wind back and fast forward .
infer: You can zoom in on a UNK or shrink it , you can either reverse back or get back or more quickly forward . 
beam: You can zoom out loud or UNK it , you can either reverse back or more quickly forward . 

post: Bạn có thể thấy từng bước đi của tôi .
response: You can see every step I take .
infer: You can see every step of mine . 
beam: You can see every step of mine . 

post: Bạn thậm chí có thể biết được tôi tới Frankfurt bằng tàu hoả tới Cologne như thế nào , và cả tần suất tôi gọi điện liên lạc giữa hai địa điểm đó .
response: And you can even see how I go from Frankfurt by train to Cologne , and how often I call in between .
infer: You can even know where I come to the UNK UNK to UNK like that , and the whole UNK I call UNK in between those two places . 
beam: You can even know where I come to the UNK UNK to UNK like that , and the whole likelihood I called UNK communication between those two places . 

post: Tất cả đều có thể với những thông tin này .
response: All this is possible with this information .
infer: It &apos;s all about this information . 
beam: It &apos;s all about this information . 

post: Tôi đã có một chút sợ hãi .
response: That &apos;s a little bit scary .
infer: I have a little bit of fear . 
beam: I have a little bit of fear . 

post: Nhưng những thông tin đó không chỉ nói về tôi .
response: But it is not only about me .
infer: But that information is not just talking about me . 
beam: But that information is not just talking about me . 

post: Nó là thông tin về tất cả chúng ta .
response: It &apos;s about all of us .
infer: It &apos;s information about all of us . 
beam: It &apos;s information about all of us . 

post: Đầu tiên , nó chỉ giống như thế này , tôi gọi cho vợ tôi và cô ấy cũng gọi cho tôi , chúng tôi nói chuyện với nhau vài ba lần .
response: First , it &apos;s only like , I call my wife and she calls me , and we talk to each other a couple of times .
infer: At first , it was just like this , I called my wife and her calling , who we spoke to each other a few times . 
beam: At first , it was just like this , what I call my wife and she called me , and we spoke with each other three times . 

post: Và sau đó là một vài người bạn gọi cho tôi , họ gọi cho nhau nữa .
response: And then there are some friends calling me , and they call each other .
infer: And then some of you called me , they call each other . 
beam: And then some of you called me , they call each other . 

post: Một lúc sau đó bạn gọi cho bạn , và bạn gọi cho bạn , và bạn sẽ có được mạng lưới giao tiếp rộng lớn này .
response: And after a while you are calling you , and you are calling you , and you have this great communication network .
infer: Then then you call it to you , and you call you , and you have this huge UNK grid . 
beam: Once then you call it to you , and you call you , and you have this huge UNK grid . 

post: Nhưng bạn có thể thấy cách mà chúng ta giao tiếp với nhau , họ gọi cho nhau lúc nào , khi nào họ đi ngủ .
response: But you can see how your people are communicating with each other , what times they call each other , when they go to bed .
infer: But you can see how we communicate with each other , they call each other , when they go to sleep . 
beam: But you can see how we communicate with each other , they call each other , when they go to sleep . 

post: Bạn có thể thấy tất cả điều đó .
response: You can see all of this .
infer: You can see all that . 
beam: You can see all that . 

post: Bạn có thể thấy được những phần trọng yếu nhất , giống như là những người lãnh đạo trong một nhóm .
response: You can see the hubs , like who are the leaders in the group .
infer: You can see the most important part , like the leaders in a group . 
beam: You can see the most important part , like the UNK of a group . 

post: Nếu bạn có được quyền truy cập những thông tin này , bạn có thể thấy được hoạt động của cả cộng đồng , xã hội .
response: If you have access to this information , you can see what your society is doing .
infer: If you have access to access this information , you can see the activity of public , social communities . 
beam: If you have access to access this information , you can see the activity of public , social communities . 

post: Nếu bạn có quyền truy cập những thông tin này , bạn có thể kiểm soát toàn bộ xã hội .
response: If you have access to this information , you can control your society .
infer: If you have access to access this information , you can control the social UNK . 
beam: If you have access to access this information , you can control over the entire societies . 

post: Đây là một bản vẽ thiết kế cho những quốc gia như Trung Quốc hay Iran .
response: This is a blueprint for countries like China and Iran .
infer: This is a design drawing of the countries like China or Iran . 
beam: This is a design drawing for countries like China or Iran . 

post: Đây là một bản vẽ cách để khảo sát toàn xã hội bởi lẽ bạn biết được người nào nói chuyện với người nào , người nào đã gửi đi những email , tất cả điều đó đều có thể nếu bạn có quyền truy cập những thông tin này .
response: This is a blueprint how to survey your society , because you know who talks to whom , who sends whom an email , all this is possible if you have access to this information .
infer: This is a UNK summary of how people talk to people , who have sent out all the emails , all of which can if you have access to access to these information . 
beam: This is a UNK summary of how people talk to people , who who &apos;ve sent out all of that possible if you have access to access to these information . 

post: Và những thông tin này được lưu trữ trong ít nhất sáu tháng ở châu Âu , cho tới tận hai năm .
response: And this information is stored for at least six months in Europe , up to two years .
infer: And these are UNK , and at least six months in Europe , until up to 20 years . 
beam: And these data are stored in less than six months in Europe , until the next two years . 

post: Như tôi đã nói khi bắt đầu , hãy tưởng tượng nếu tất cả những người này trên đường phố Berlin mùa thu năm 1989 có một chiếc điện thoại di động trong túi .
response: Like I said at the beginning , imagine that all those people on the streets of Berlin in autumn of 1989 had a mobile phone in their pocket .
infer: As I said to begin , imagine that if all these guys on the streets of UNK in UNK , there were a mobile phone in their pockets . 
beam: So I said , when we started started , imagine if all of these guys in the streets of UNK in the streets of UNK , there was a mobile phone in the pockets . 

post: Thì có lẽ Stasi sẽ biết những ai đã tham gia trong cuộc biểu tình này , và nếu Stasi biết được ai là người lãnh đạo đứng đằng sau nó , thì có lẽ nó sẽ không bao giờ có thể xảy ra được .
response: And the Stasi would have known who took part at this protest , and if the Stasi would have known who are the leaders behind it , this may never have happened .
infer: You might know that some who have been involved in this protest , and if you know who the leader who stands behind it , it might never be possible . 
beam: You might know that those who have been involved in this protest , and if UNK knows who the leader stands after it , maybe it can never happen . 

post: Sự sụp đổ của bức tường Berlin có thể sẽ không tồn tại .
response: The fall of the Berlin Wall would maybe not &#91; have been &#93; there .
infer: It &apos;s not going to survive . 
beam: It &apos;s not going to survive . 

post: Và nếu như vậy , thì có lẽ sự sụp đổ của Bức màn sắt trong Chiến tranh lạnh cũng sẽ không tồn tại .
response: And in the aftermath , also not the fall of the Iron Curtain .
infer: And if that &apos;s true , maybe the collapse of the UNK in the UNK War will be none . 
beam: And if that &apos;s true , maybe the collapse of an iron pool in the UNK is not going to exist . 

post: Bởi lẽ ngày nay , các cơ quan chức năng và công ty muốn lưu lại những thông tin họ có được về chúng ta càng nhiều càng tốt , cả trực tuyến và ngoại tuyến .
response: Because today , state agencies and companies want to store as much information as they can get about us , online and offline .
infer: Because today , functional organs and companies want to stay on the information they get on the better , the more , the online and the UNK . 
beam: Because today , functional organs and companies want to record information that they &apos;re getting about as much as possible , online and UNK . 

post: Họ muốn có được khả năng theo sát cuộc sống của chúng ta , và vì lẽ đó họ muốn lưu lại những thông tin này ở mọi thời điểm .
response: They want to have the possibility to track our lives , and they want to store them for all time .
infer: They want to get the ability to track our lives , and because they want to capture all the information at all times . 
beam: They want to get the ability to track our lives , and therefore they want to capture this information in every moment . 

post: Sự tự chủ và việc sống trong thời đại công nghệ số không hề mâu thuẫn .
response: But self-determination and living in the digital age is no contradiction .
infer: UNK and living in contemporary age is not UNK . 
beam: UNK and lifestyle lives are not UNK . 

post: Điều mà bạn nên làm là đấu tranh cho sự tự chủ của mình ngày hôm nay .
response: But you have to fight for your self-determination today .
infer: What you should do is fight for your UNK today . 
beam: What you should do is fight for your UNK today . 

post: Và bạn phải đấu tranh không ngừng nghỉ cho nó mỗi ngày .
response: You have to fight for it every day .
infer: And you have to fight for a day for UNK . 
beam: And you have to fight for a day . 

post: Sau đó , khi bạn trở về nhà , hãy nói với bạn bè của mình rằng quyền riêng tư là một giá trị của thế kỉ 21 , và điều đó không hề lỗi thời .
response: So , when you go home , tell your friends that privacy is a value of the 21st century , and it &apos;s not outdated .
infer: Then , when you go back home , tell your friends that that &apos;s the value of the 21st century , it &apos;s not even obsolete . 
beam: Then , when you go back home , tell your friends that that &apos;s the value of the 21st century , it &apos;s not even obsolete . 

post: Khi bạn trở về nhà , hãy nói với chỉ người đại diện của mình rằng bởi các công ty và cơ quan chức năng có thể lưu giữ lại những thông tin cụ thể , mặc dù họ không nhất thiết phải làm như thế
response: When you go home , tell your representative only because companies and state agencies have the possibility to store certain information , they don &apos;t have to do it .
infer: When you go home , tell yourself , my representatives said that by companies and organs can UNK the data , even though they don &apos;t have to do that . 
beam: When you go home , tell your represented , that by companies and organs can save the data , even though they don &apos;t have to do that . 

post: Và nếu bạn không tin tưởng tôi , hãy yêu cầu nhà mạng cung cấp những thông tin mà họ đã lưu trữ về mình .
response: And if you don &apos;t believe me , ask your phone company what information they store about you .
infer: And if you don &apos;t trust me , require the Internet to deliver the data that they have stored to you . 
beam: And if you don &apos;t trust me , require the Internet to deliver the data that they have stored with . 

post: Như vậy , trong tương lai , mỗi khi bạn sử dụng chiếc điện thoại của mình hãy để nó nhắc nhở bạn rằng bạn phải đấu tranh cho sự tự chủ cá nhân trong thời đại số này .
response: So , in the future , every time you use your mobile phone , let it be a reminder to you that you have to fight for self-determination in the digital age .
infer: So , in the future , every time you use your cell phone , let &apos;s remind you that you have to fight for personal UNK in this number of times . 
beam: So , in the future , every time you use your cell phone , let &apos;s remind you that you have to fight for personal UNK in that number . 

post: Cảm ơn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Nhiếp ảnh là niềm đam mê của tôi kể từ khi tôi đủ lớn để cầm một chiếc máy ảnh , nhưng hôm nay tôi muốn chia sẻ với các bạn 15 bức ảnh mà tôi trân trọng nhất , và tôi không tự chụp cái nào trong số đó .
response: Photography has been my passion ever since I was old enough to pick up a camera , but today I want to share with you the 15 most treasured photos of mine , and I didn &apos;t take any of them .
infer: UNK was my passion that was big enough to pick up a camera , but I &apos;d like to share with you 15 images that I most most of value for , and I didn &apos;t take any of them . 
beam: UNK was my passion that was big enough to pick up a camera , but I &apos;d like to share with you 15 images that I most most of value for , and I didn &apos;t take any of them . 

post: Không có đạo diễn nghệ thuật , không có nhà tạo mẫu , không chụp lại , thậm chí không hề quan tâm tới ánh sáng .
response: There were no art directors , no stylists , no chance for reshoots , not even any regard for lighting .
infer: No visual speaker , without a builder , without a UNK , didn &apos;t even care about light . 
beam: There was no art UNK , no UNK , no UNK , no reference to the light . 

post: Thực ra , hầu hết chúng đều được chụp bởi những du khách tình cờ đi ngang qua
response: In fact , most of them were taken by random tourists .
infer: In fact , most of them were taken by UNK . 
beam: In fact , most of them were taken by UNK . 

post: Câu chuyện bắt đầu khi tôi đến thành phố New York để tham gia vào một bài phát biểu và vợ tôi chụp bức hình tôi đang ôm con gái trong ngày sinh nhật đầu tiên của bé . Chúng tôi đứng ở góc đường số 57 và 5 .
response: My story begins when I was in New York City for a speaking engagement , and my wife took this picture of me holding my daughter on her first birthday . We &apos;re on the corner of 57th and 5th .
infer: And the story began when I went to New York City to join my wife on a speech and my wife and I took the picture I was holding my first birthday . We stood at the UNK in number of places and five . 
beam: And the story began when I went to New York City to get involved on a speech speech and my wife , and I was UNK a girl in my first birthday . We were standing in the corner of Utah and five . 

post: Chúng tôi tình cờ quay lại New York đúng một năm sau đó , vì thế chúng tôi quyết định chụp một bức nữa như vậy .
response: We happened to be back in New York exactly a year later , so we decided to take the same picture .
infer: We happened to go back to New York City a year , so we decided to take one more look like that . 
beam: We happened to go back to New York City a year , so we decided to take one of these . 

post: Bạn có thể thấy câu chuyện đang dẫn đến đâu .
response: Well you can see where this is going .
infer: You can see where the story is going . 
beam: You can see where the story is . 

post: Khi sắp tới sinh nhật lần thứ 3 của con gái tôi , vợ tôi nói , &quot; Sao anh không đưa Sabrina đến New York làm một chuyến du lịch chỉ có cha và con gái , rồi tiếp tục &quot; nghi thức &quot; cũ ?
response: Approaching my daughter &apos;s third birthday , my wife said , &quot; Hey , why don &apos;t you take Sabina back to New York and make it a father-daughter trip , and continue the ritual ? &quot;
infer: When I was coming to reach my UNK birthday , my wife &apos;s third UNK , my wife said , &quot; Why don &apos;t you take UNK and come on a UNK trip , and UNK , and then go , &quot; UNK , &quot; UNK ? 
beam: When I was preparing for the UNK birthday of my daughter , my wife said , &quot; Why don &apos;t you take UNK to New York -- there &apos;s a father and daughter , and go on &quot; UNK &quot; ? 

post: Từ đó chúng tôi bắt đầu nhờ khách du lịch qua đường chụp ảnh
response: This is when we started asking passing tourists to take the picture .
infer: We &apos;ve started UNK through our UNK . 
beam: From that we started getting UNK through our UNK . 

post: Bạn biết đấy , động tác trao máy ảnh của mình cho một người hoàn toàn xa lạ phổ biến trên toàn thế giới một cách đáng chú ý .
response: You know , it &apos;s remarkable how universal the gesture is of handing your camera to a total stranger .
infer: You know , the UNK UNK to a person that &apos;s completely strange from the world in the world UNK . 
beam: You know , our camera UNK to an UNK and pervasive and universal UNK all over the world . 

post: Không có ai từ chối , và may mắn là chưa có ai bỏ chạy với camera của chúng tôi .
response: No one &apos;s ever refused , and luckily no one &apos;s ever run off with our camera .
infer: No one was denied , and fortunately she was UNK with our camera . 
beam: No one was denied , and fortunately she was UNK with our camera . 

post: Hồi đó , chúng tôi không hề biết chuyến đi ấy sẽ thay đổi cuộc sống của chúng tôi như thế nào .
response: Back then , we had no idea how much this trip would change our lives .
infer: And we didn &apos;t know where the journey was going to change our lives . 
beam: And we didn &apos;t know where the journey was going to change our lives . 

post: Nó trở nên thật thiêng liêng với chúng tôi .
response: It &apos;s really become sacred to us .
infer: It became UNK to us . 
beam: It became UNK to us . 

post: Bức này được chụp vài tuần sau sự kiện 11 / 9 , và tôi đã cố gắng giải thích những việc xảy ra hôm đó theo những cách mà một đứa trẻ 5 tuổi có thể hiểu được .
response: This one was taken just weeks after 9 / 11 , and I found myself trying to explain what had happened that day in ways a five-year-old could understand .
infer: This was a couple of weeks after 9 / 11 , and I was trying to explain what &apos;s going on to the ways , in the ways , a five-year-old can understand . 
beam: This was done a few weeks after 9 / 11 , and I was trying to explain what &apos;s going on to the same ways , as a UNK can understand . 

post: Những bức ảnh này không chỉ là vật đại diện cho một khoảnh khắc , hay một chuyến đi đặc biệt nào đó .
response: So these photos are far more than proxies for a single moment , or even a specific trip .
infer: These pictures are not just an UNK for a moment or a degree of a particular one . 
beam: These pictures are not just the representative for a moment or , or a particular thing . 

post: Chúng là cách để chúng tôi dừng thời gian trong một tuần của tháng mười , suy nghĩ về thời gian của chúng tôi và cách chúng tôi thay đổi theo mỗi năm , không chỉ về mặt thể chất , mà là về mọi mặt .
response: They &apos;re also ways for us to freeze time for one week in October and reflect on our times and how we change from year to year , and not just physically , but in every way .
infer: They &apos;re the way for us to stop our time for a week of our UNK , thinking about our time , and how we change each year , not just about the physical systems , but in every single face . 
beam: It &apos;s a way for us to stop our time for a week of our UNK , thinking about our time , and how we change each year , not just about the physical systems , but in every single face . 

post: Bởi vì dù chúng tôi chụp cùng một bức ảnh , nhưng quan điểm của chúng tôi thay đổi , con gái tôi đạt được những dấu mốc mới , và tôi được nhìn cuộc đời qua đôi mắt con bé , cách nó quan sát và tương tác với mọi vật .
response: Because while we take the same photo , our perspectives change , and she reaches new milestones , and I get to see life through her eyes , and how she interacts with and sees everything .
infer: Because although we take the same pictures , we think our daughter has been made a new set of set set , and I &apos;ve been seeing the life of the baby in the eyes , the way that it &apos;s looking at , the way that it &apos;s about
beam: Because although we take the same pictures , our point changed , my daughter has been to have new footprints , and I &apos;m seeing her life through children , and how it looked at and interacting with everything . 

post: Khoảng thời gian mà chúng tôi tập trung dành cho nhau này là một thứ chúng tôi trân trọng và mong đợi suốt cả năm .
response: This very focused time we get to spend together is something we cherish and anticipate the entire year .
infer: The very time we are spending the day that we honor , for all year . 
beam: At the time that we &apos;re focusing on for each other is something that we honor and we UNK all the years . 

post: Gần đây , trong một chuyến đi , chúng tôi đang đi bộ thì con gái tôi đột ngột dừng lại giữa đường , và nó chỉ đến mái hiên màu đỏ của cửa hàng búp bê mà nó rất thích khi còn nhỏ trong những chuyến đi trước đây của chúng tôi .
response: Recently , on one trip , we were walking , and she stops dead in her tracks , and she points to a red awning of the doll store that she loved when she was little on our earlier trips .
infer: Recently , in a trip , we &apos;re walking , and the daughter is UNK , and it &apos;s just coming to the red UNK of the favorite UNK , which is very little to be in the UNK of our day . 
beam: Recently , in a trip , we &apos;re walking , and my daughter &apos;s UNK up the middle of the road , and it &apos;s just by the red UNK of UNK shop that it &apos;s very much about to be in our UNK . 

post: Con bé mô tả cho tôi cảm giác của nó hồi 5 tuổi , khi đứng tại đúng vị trí đó .
response: And she describes to me the feeling she felt as a five-year-old standing in that exact spot .
infer: That UNK me that UNK me , at the age of the age , when he was in the right position at that position . 
beam: That UNK me how it works about five years old when he &apos;s in the right position . 

post: Nó nói rằng nó nhớ tim mình đã bật ra khỏi lồng ngực khi nó nhìn thấy cửa hàng ấy lần đầu tiên cách đó 9 năm .
response: She said she remembers her heart bursting out of her chest when she saw that place for the very first time nine years earlier .
infer: He says it UNK the heart of the chest when it sees that for the first time , it &apos;s nine years ago . 
beam: It says it UNK the heart of the UNK when it comes out of the UNK when he sees it for nine years . 

post: Và bây giờ những thứ nó thấy ở New York là các trường đại học , vì nó đã quyết định đi học ở New York .
response: And now what she &apos;s looking at in New York are colleges , because she &apos;s determined to go to school in New York .
infer: And now what it &apos;s about in New York is the universities , it decided to go to New York . 
beam: And now what it does in New York is the universities , because it decided to go to New York . 

post: Và tôi nhận ra : một trong những thứ quan trọng nhất mà chúng ta tạo ra là kí ức .
response: And it hit me : One of the most important things we all make are memories .
infer: And I realized that one of the most important things we made was a memory . 
beam: And I realized : one of the most important things that we create is memory . 

post: Vì vậy tôi muốn chia sẻ ý tưởng nắm vai trò chủ động trong việc tạo ra ký ức .
response: So I want to share the idea of taking an active role in consciously creating memories .
infer: So I want to share the idea of actively UNK in producing memory . 
beam: So I want to share the idea of actively UNK in producing memory . 

post: Tôi không biết các bạn thế nào , nhưng ngoài 15 bức hình này , tôi không xuất hiện nhiều lắm trong những bức ảnh gia đình .
response: I don &apos;t know about you , but aside from these 15 shots , I &apos;m not in many of the family photos .
infer: I don &apos;t know about all of you , but there &apos;s this 15 picture , and I didn &apos;t show a lot of the very UNK in the family . 
beam: I don &apos;t know about all of you , but there &apos;s this 15 picture , and I didn &apos;t show up a lot of my family . 

post: Tôi luôn là người chụp ảnh .
response: I &apos;m always the one taking the picture .
infer: I always have been taking pictures . 
beam: I &apos;m always UNK . 

post: Vì vậy hôm nay tôi muốn động viên tất cả mọi người hãy có mặt trong bức ảnh , và đừng ngần ngại bước tới chỗ một ai đó , và hỏi , &quot; Bạn chụp ảnh giúp chúng tôi nhé ? &quot;
response: So I want to encourage everyone today to get in the shot , and don &apos;t hesitate to go up to someone and ask , &quot; Will you take our picture ? &quot;
infer: So today I would like to encourage everybody to everybody -- in the image , and don &apos;t forget to come there with someone , and ask , &quot; Can you take pictures of us ? &quot; 
beam: So today I want to encourage everybody to be everybody on the image , and don &apos;t forget Go to someone , and ask , &quot; Can you take pictures of us ? &quot; 

post: Cảm ơn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Tôi chưa bao giờ quên những lời bà tôi dặn dò - bà đã qua đời trong cảnh tha hương : &quot; Này cháu , hãy chống lại Gaddafi . Hãy chiến đấu chống lại hắn .
response: I have never , ever forgotten the words of my grandmother who died in her exile : &quot; Son , resist Gaddafi . Fight him .
infer: I had never forget my grandmothers , &quot; Look , UNK , &quot; UNK , UNK . Be fight for him . 
beam: I had never forget my UNK UNK , who passed in exile : &quot; Look , UNK , against the UNK . Let &apos;s fight against him . 

post: Nhưng đừng bao giờ biến thành một dạng người cách mạng kiểu Gaddafi . &quot;
response: But don &apos;t you ever turn into a Gaddafi-like revolutionary . &quot;
infer: But don &apos;t ever turn into a kind of a kind of UNK style . &quot; 
beam: But don &apos;t ever turn into a kind of UNK revolutions . &quot; 

post: Gần hai năm đã trôi qua từ khi cuộc Khởi Nghĩa ở Libya nổ ra , được tiếp thêm sinh lực bởi những làn sóng động viên trên diện rộng từ những cuộc khởi nghĩa ở Tunisia và Ai Cập .
response: Almost two years have passed since the Libyan Revolution broke out , inspired by the waves of mass mobilization in both the Tunisian and the Egyptian revolutions .
infer: For two years has passed since the UNK UNK in UNK , and then UNK by these UNK UNK by UNK UNK in Tunisia and Egypt . 
beam: UNK two years have passed since that UNK &apos;s UNK in Libya , which is continuously driven by UNK UNK by UNK in Tunisia and Egypt . 

post: Tôi tham gia vào các lực lượng trong và ngoài Libya để kêu gọi cho ngày của thịnh nộ và để khởi đầu một cuộc khởi nghĩa chống lại chế độ chuyên chế Gaddafi .
response: I joined forces with many other Libyans inside and outside Libya to call for a day of rage and to initiate a revolution against the tyrannical regime of Gaddafi .
infer: I was involved in the workforce and outside of Sarajevo to bring the UNK UNK UNK and to start a UNK UNK . 
beam: I was involved in the workforce and the UNK for the day of UNK and to start a UNK UNK . 

post: Và đó là một cuộc cách mạng vĩ đại .
response: And there it was , a great revolution .
infer: And that &apos;s a great revolution . 
beam: And it was a great revolution . 

post: Nam nữ thanh niên đứng đầu chiến tuyến đòi lật đổ chính quyền , giơ cao những biểu ngữ về tự do , phẩm giá , công bằng xã hội .
response: Young Libyan women and men were at the forefront calling for the fall of the regime , raising slogans of freedom , dignity , social justice .
infer: The UNK of UNK , the UNK wouldn &apos;t open open government , raising the UNK , dignity , justice , justice . 
beam: UNK men must start UNK , raising free symbols , dignity , justice , justice . 

post: Họ đã tỏ rõ một tấm gương về lòng quả cảm trong việc đối đầu với chế độ độc tài tàn bạo của Gaddafi .
response: They have shown an exemplary bravery in confronting the brutal dictatorship of Gaddafi .
infer: They had the UNK of the effect of the UNK of UNK violence . 
beam: They UNK an mirror of their own mind against UNK UNK . 

post: Họ đã cho thấy một tình đoàn kết keo sơn trải từ đông sang tây và kéo dài đến tận miền nam .
response: They have shown a great sense of solidarity from the far east to the far west to the south .
infer: They showed a UNK UNK made of UNK to west and UNK to the south . 
beam: They showed a UNK UNK made of UNK to west and UNK to the south . 

post: Cuối cùng thì , sau 6 tháng chiến tranh ác liệt với tổng thương vong lên đến 50,000 người chúng tôi đã xoay sở giải phóng đất nước mình và lật đổ tên bạo chúa .
response: Eventually , after a period of six months of brutal war and a toll rate of almost 50,000 dead , we managed to liberate our country and to topple the tyrant .
infer: Finally , six months of war , UNK war came up to 50,000 , we managed to manage our country UNK and UNK them into the UNK . 
beam: And finally , after six months of war , UNK war came up to 50,000 , we managed to manage our country UNK and UNK them . 

post: Tuy nhiên , Gaddafi đã để lại một gánh nặng , một di sản của chính thể chuyên chế , tham nhũng và những mầm mống chia rẽ .
response: However , Gaddafi left behind a heavy burden , a legacy of tyranny , corruption and seeds of diversions .
infer: However , UNK left a heavy burden , a legacy of UNK , corruption and UNK UNK . 
beam: However , UNK left a heavy burden , a legacy of UNK , corruption and UNK . 

post: Trong suốt bốn thập kỉ , nền chuyên chế tàn bạo của Gaddafi đã phá huỷ cơ sở hạ tầng cũng như nền văn hoá và nền tảng đạo đức của xã hội Libya .
response: For four decades Gaddafi &apos;s tyrannical regime destroyed the infrastructure as well as the culture and the moral fabric of Libyan society .
infer: For four decades , the UNK UNK of UNK UNK UNK the infrastructure as well as the culture and the moral capital of UNK UNK . 
beam: For four decades , the UNK UNK of UNK UNK the infrastructure as well as the culture and also the moral capital of UNK . 

post: Nhận thức được sự huỷ hoại và những thách thức , tôi cũng như bao nhiêu phụ nữ khác , hăm hở tái xây dựng xã hội dân sự của Libya , kêu gọi sự toàn diện và quá trình chuyển tiếp sang nền dân chủ và hoà giải quốc gia .
response: Aware of the devastation and the challenges , I was keen among many other women to rebuild the Libyan civil society , calling for an inclusive and just transition to democracy and national reconciliation .
infer: UNK is what it is , as UNK , as many women , UNK UNK of UNK , UNK the UNK and the process of UNK to democracy and UNK . 
beam: UNK has been UNK and UNK , and , as many other women , UNK society &apos;s civil society , UNK the full and the process of UNK to democracy and UNK . 

post: Gần 200 tổ chức được thiết lập tại Benghazi trong suốt thời gian đó và ngay sau Gaddafi sụp đổ -- gần 300 tại Tripoli .
response: Almost 200 organizations were established in Benghazi during and immediately after the fall of Gaddafi -- almost 300 in Tripoli .
infer: Almost 200 200 set of organization was built in UNK during the course and in the course of the collapsed -- 65 in UNK . 
beam: UNK 200 set of organization was built in UNK during the time and in the course of the collapsed -- 65 in UNK . 

post: Sau 33 năm trời tha hương , tôi trở lại Libya , với một lòng nhiệt huyết độc nhất , tôi bắt đầu tổ chức các lớp huấn luyện nâng cao năng lực , phát triển con người về kỹ năng lãnh đạo .
response: After a period of 33 years in exile , I went back to Libya , and with unique enthusiasm , I started organizing workshops on capacity building , on human development of leadership skills .
infer: After 33 years of UNK , I came back to Afghanistan , and my UNK passion , and I started to develop UNK UNK training , developing young people about leadership skills . 
beam: After 33 years of UNK , I came back to Afghanistan , with my unique passion , and I started to develop UNK UNK UNK , developing people into leadership skills . 

post: Cùng một nhóm phụ nữ tuyệt vời , tôi đồng sáng lập Cương Lĩnh Phụ Nữ Libya vì Hoà Bình một phong trào của phụ nữ , các nhà lãnh đạo từ mọi thành phần khác nhau trong xã hội , để vận động hành lang cho sự trao quyền chính trị xã hội cho phụ nữ và để vận động cho quyền của chúng tôi được bình đẳng tham gia xây dựng nền dân chủ và hoà bình .
response: With an amazing group of women , I co-founded the Libyan Women &apos;s Platform for Peace , a movement of women , leaders , from different walks of life , to lobby for the sociopolitical empowerment of women and to lobby for our right for equal participation in building democracy and peace .
infer: At the other UNK of women , I UNK UNK UNK UNK Woman UNK UNK UNK Women &apos;s UNK is UNK UNK &apos; UNK Women , who are UNK UNK &apos; UNK Women &apos;s UNK for women and for our power to be UNK , who is UNK UNK UNK
beam: UNK UNK UNK Women , I UNK UNK UNK Women &apos;s UNK for women , for women , for women , for women , for women , for women , for women , for women , for women , for women and peace . 

post: Tôi đã ở trong hoàn cảnh vô cùng khó khăn giai đoạn tiền bầu cử , một môi trường ngày càng phân cực , một môi trường được thành hình bởi quan điểm chính trị ích kỷ đầy tính thống trị và loại trừ .
response: I met a very difficult environment in the pre-elections , an environment which was increasingly polarized , an environment which was shaped by the selfish politics of dominance and exclusion .
infer: I stayed under a situation with absolutely UNK , a UNK environment , a environment that was created by the political and UNK interest . 
beam: I was in the situation of UNK , a UNK and UNK environment , a environment that was created by the UNK political politics and UNK . 

post: Tôi dẫn đầu một sáng kiến của Cương Lĩnh Phụ Nữ Libya vì Hoà Bình để vận động hành lang cho một luật bầu cử mang tính toàn diện hơn , luật mà có thể mang đến cho mọi công dân , dù họ xuất thân ra sao , quyền được bầu và tranh cử , và quan trọng nhất là đặt quy định cho những đảng chính trị phải đan xen các ứng cử viên nam và nữ theo cả chiều dọc và chiều ngang trong danh sách của họ tạo ra danh sách hình khoá kéo .
response: I led an initiative by the Libyan Women &apos;s Platform for Peace to lobby for a more inclusive electoral law , a law that would give every citizen , no matter what your background , the right to vote and run , and most importantly to stipulate on political parties the alternation of male and female candidates vertically and horizontally in their lists , creating the zipper list .
infer: UNK UNK UNK Women was UNK , whether they were finally , right , and UNK , and most important , to make a difference for the political party to UNK the candidates and women and the inner length of their list to UNK out of UNK and UNK and
beam: I led the UNK UNK UNK Women &apos;s UNK UNK Act of UNK , and the most important thing is to channel the politicians to UNK the UNK and the UNK to the men and the inner and the UNK of their list to create a UNK to the UNK

post: Cuối cùng thì sáng kiến của chúng tôi cũng đã được tiếp nhận và thành công .
response: Eventually , our initiative was adopted and successful .
infer: And finally , our UNK eventually got accepted and succeeded . 
beam: At the end , our UNK were also UNK and successful . 

post: Phụ nữ thắng 17,5 phần trăm trong Quốc Hội Nhà Nước ở những cuộc bầu cử đầu tiên trong vòng 52 năm trở lại đây .
response: Women won 17.5 percent of the National Congress in the first elections ever in 52 years .
infer: Women won UNK percent of the UNK UNK in the first major elections in the back UNK . 
beam: Women win UNK percent of the UNK UNK in the first major elections in the back UNK . 

post: Tuy nhiên , từng chút từng chút một , sự hưng phấn từ các cuộc bầu cử và của cuộc cách mạng nhìn chung biến mất dần -- khi từng ngày qua đi chúng tôi thức dậy với các tin tức về bạo lực .
response: However , bit by bit , the euphoria of the elections , and of the revolution as a whole , was fading out -- for every day we were waking up to the news of violence .
infer: However , a little bit of UNK between the UNK and the revolution revolution disappear -- the day we get past and then UNK with the news of violence . 
beam: However , a little bit of UNK between the UNK and the revolution revolution disappear -- as long by day we woke up with the news of violence . 

post: Một ngày chúng tôi thức giấc với tin tức về sự báng bổ các đền thờ cổ và lăng mộ của người Sufi .
response: One day we wake up to the news of the desecration of ancient mosques and Sufi tombs .
infer: One day we came up from the news of UNK UNK and UNK . 
beam: One day we came up from the news of UNK UNK and UNK . 

post: Ngày khác chúng tôi thức dậy với tin tức về vụ tàn sát đại sứ Mỹ và vụ tấn công vào lãnh sự quán .
response: On another day we wake up to the news of the murder of the American ambassador and the attack on the consulate .
infer: We were getting up on the news of the American UNK and the UNK of the site of the crime , and the mission to attack that UNK . 
beam: The other day we woke up with news of the American UNK UNK and the UNK of the expo . 

post: Ngày khác nữa chúng tôi thức dậy với tin về vụ ám sát các sỹ quan quân đội .
response: On another day we wake up to the news of the assassination of army officers .
infer: The other day we get up with the UNK of UNK UNK . 
beam: The other day we woke up with the UNK of the military agencies . 

post: Và mỗi ngày , mỗi ngày chúng tôi thức dậy với luật lệ của lực lượng dân quân và những sự vi phạm liên tiếp của họ về quyền con người với tù nhân cũng như sự không tôn trọng các quy định trong luật pháp của họ .
response: And every day , every day we wake up with the rule of the militias and their continuous violations of human rights of prisoners and their disrespect of the rule of law .
infer: And every day , every day we woke up with the rules of the military force and their UNK partners as UNK as UNK as UNK to their laws . 
beam: And every day , every day we woke up with the rules of the military forces and their UNK partners with UNK people as well as the importance of their laws . 

post: Xã hội của chúng tôi , thành hình bởi các tư duy cách mạng , trở nên phân cực hơn và đã rời xa các lý tưởng , các nguyên tắc về tự do , phẩm giá , bình đẳng xã hội mà chúng tôi theo đuổi lúc ban đầu .
response: Our society , shaped by a revolutionary mindset , became more polarized and has driven away from the ideals and the principles -- freedom , dignity , social justice -- that we first held .
infer: Our society is born by UNK , and UNK , and UNK the ideas , the principles of freedom , the freedom , the social equity that we &apos;re at the beginning . 
beam: Our society is born by UNK , getting more UNK , and already left the ideal , the principles of free , the social equity that we &apos;re at the very beginning . 

post: Tính không dung thứ , loại trừ và báo thù trở thành biểu tượng của thời khởi nghĩa .
response: Intolerance , exclusion and revenge became the icons of the &#91; aftermath &#93; of the revolution .
infer: UNK is not content , eliminating and UNK UNK of the UNK . 
beam: UNK is not content , eliminating and UNK into a symbol of UNK . 

post: Tôi tới đây không có ý định truyền cảm hứng cho bạn với câu chuyện thành công trong việc tạo ra danh sách hình khoá kéo và các cuộc bầu cử .
response: I am here today not at all to inspire you with our success story of the zipper list and the elections .
infer: I don &apos;t have the inspired for inspiring to you with the success story , to create UNK pictures of UNK and elections . 
beam: I don &apos;t have the inspired to inspire you to success UNK and elections . 

post: Mà tôi đến đây để thú nhận rằng chúng tôi - toàn bộ đất nước đã lựa chọn sai lầm , đã quyết định sai lầm .
response: I &apos;m rather here today to confess that we as a nation took the wrong choice , made the wrong decision .
infer: I &apos;m here to admit that we -- the whole country has changed the wrong way , making the wrong choice . 
beam: I &apos;m here to admit that we -- the whole country has changed the wrong way , making the wrong choice . 

post: Chúng tôi đã không ưu tiên quyền công dân .
response: We did not prioritize right .
infer: We didn &apos;t have the public rights . 
beam: We didn &apos;t have the public rights . 

post: Vì những cuộc bầu cử không đem lại hoà bình , sự ổn định hay an ninh cho Libya .
response: For elections did not bring peace and stability and security in Libya .
infer: Because elections don &apos;t give peace , stability or security for hackers . 
beam: Because elections don &apos;t give peace , stability or security for hackers . 

post: Liệu danh sách hình khoá kéo và sự dan xen giữa các ứng cử viên nam và nữ đã đem lại hoà bình và hoà giải cho đất nước chăng ?
response: Did the zipper list and the alternation between female and male candidates bring peace and national reconciliation ?
infer: Will the UNK list and the UNK between the UNK candidates and women and women bring peace and UNK into the country ? 
beam: Will the UNK list and the UNK between the UNK candidates , and the woman UNK peace and UNK for the country ? 

post: Không , không hề .
response: No , it didn &apos;t .
infer: No , it &apos;s not . 
beam: No , no . 

post: Vậy cuối cùng nó đã giúp ích gì ?
response: What is it , then ?
infer: So what did it have to do ? 
beam: So what did it mean ? 

post: Tại sao xã hội chúng tôi tiếp tục là một xã hội phân cực và thống trị bởi những nền chính trị ích kỷ của sự thống trị và loại trừ , bởi cả hai giới nam và nữ ?
response: Why does our society continue to be polarized and dominated with selfish politics of dominance and exclusion , by both men and women ?
infer: Why is our society going on being a huge social and political society , by the political politics of dominance and UNK , by both men and women ? 
beam: Why is our society going to be a UNK society and political politics of dominance and UNK , by both men and women ? 

post: Có thể sự thiếu sót không chỉ là về mặt bình quyền của phụ nữ mà còn là những giá trị tính nữ về lòng trắc ẩn , sự khoan dung , và tính toàn diện .
response: Maybe what was missing was not the women only , but the feminine values of compassion , mercy and inclusion .
infer: Maybe missing is not just about women &apos;s rights , but they are about the gay UNK of women , but they are the UNK of UNK , UNK , and UNK . 
beam: Maybe missing is not just about the gay side of women , but they are the UNK values of compassion , of UNK , of UNK . 

post: Xã hội của chúng tôi cần một cuộc đối thoại cấp quốc gia và sự đồng lòng xây dựng hơn là cần những cuộc bầu cử điều mà , chỉ làm tăng sự phân cực và chia rẽ hơn thôi .
response: Our society needs national dialogue and consensus-building more than it needed the elections , which only reinforced polarization and division .
infer: Our society needs a national dialogue , and the community of UNK rather than the ones who have UNK elections , which makes the difference and divide it . 
beam: Our entire society needs a national dialogue , and the community of engagement is needed the elections , which makes the difference and divide . 

post: Xã hội của chúng tôi cần những sự đại diện có phẩm chất từ nữ giới hơn là cần những con số và số lượng về sự đại diện mang tính nữ giới .
response: Our society needs the qualitative representation of the feminine more than it needs the numerical , quantitative representation of the feminine .
infer: Our society needed an UNK of the UNK UNK from the women than having numbers numbers and numbers of the UNK of the UNK . 
beam: Our society needed an UNK from the female world than we needed numbers and numbers of the UNK of women . 

post: Chúng tôi cần dừng việc hành động như những sứ giả cuồng nộ , dừng việc ủng hộ những ngày cuồng nộ .
response: We need to stop acting as agents of rage and calling for days of rage .
infer: We need to stop acting as UNK , UNK , UNK and UNK . 
beam: We need to stop acting as UNK UNK , signs of UNK . 

post: Chúng tôi cần bắt đầu hành động như những sứ giả của lòng trắc ẩn và khoan dung .
response: We need to start acting as agents of compassion and mercy .
infer: We need to start acting as the UNK of compassion and tolerance . 
beam: We need to start acting as UNK of compassion and tolerance . 

post: Chúng tôi cần phát triển một cuộc đàm luận mang tính nữ không chỉ vinh danh mà còn phải thực hành sự khoan dung thay vì thù hằn , cộng tác thay vì cạnh tranh , bao hàm thay vì loại trừ .
response: We need to develop a feminine discourse that not only honors but also implements mercy instead of revenge , collaboration instead of competition , inclusion instead of exclusion .
infer: We needed a great negotiation of men &apos; UNK , but also , the UNK of UNK , the UNK , the UNK , rather than UNK . 
beam: We need to develop a UNK discussion that &apos;s not only given the honor of the UNK , but actually , UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK . 

post: Đây là những ý tưởng cần thiết mà một đất nước đã bị chiến tranh tàn phá như Libya tuyệt đối cần để có thể gặt hái được hoà bình .
response: These are the ideals that a war-torn Libya needs desperately in order to achieve peace .
infer: These are ideas that have needed for a country that was broken as UNK UNK to be UNK to be peace . 
beam: These are ideas that have needed for a country that was broken as UNK UNK to be UNK . 

post: Bởi vì hoà bình như thuật giả kim , nó cần đến sự hoà quyện , sự đan xen giữa các quan điểm nam và nữ .
response: For peace has an alchemy , and this alchemy is about the intertwining , the alternation between the feminine and masculine perspectives .
infer: Because of peace as a UNK , it requires UNK , UNK between the opinions and female . 
beam: Because of peace as a UNK UNK , it requires UNK , UNK between respect and female . 

post: Đó mới là cái khoá kéo thật sự .
response: That &apos;s the real zipper .
infer: That &apos;s what it &apos;s all about . 
beam: That &apos;s what it &apos;s all about . 

post: Và chúng tôi cần thiết lập yếu tố sống còn đó trước khi thực hiện mặt chính trị - xã hội .
response: And we need to establish that existentially before we do so sociopolitically .
infer: And we need to set up to build the living system before perform on politics as well . 
beam: And we need to set up that form of life before done the politics -- society . 

post: Theo một đoạn thơ trong Kinh Koran &quot; Salam &quot; -- hoà bình -- &quot; là từ của Chúa Trời đầy lòng khoan dung , raheem . &quot;
response: According to a Quranic verse &quot; Salam &quot; -- peace -- &quot; is the word of the all-merciful God , raheem . &quot;
infer: According to a piece of UNK in &quot; UNK &quot; for the peace -- &quot; is from God &apos;s UNK UNK UNK , UNK . &quot; 
beam: According to a piece in &quot; UNK &quot; is from God &apos;s UNK UNK , UNK . 

post: Tiếp theo , từ &quot; raheem &quot; được biết đến trong các truyền thống của Abraham có chung nguồn gốc với tiếng Ả Rập là &quot; rahem &quot; -- tử cung-- biểu hiện cho tính nữ - tình mẹ bao bọc lấy nhân loại nơi mà đàn ông và đàn bà , từ mọi bộ lạc , mọi dân tộc , được sinh ra .
response: In turn , the word &quot; raheem , &quot; which is known in all Abrahamic traditions , has the same root in Arabic as the word &quot; rahem &quot; -- womb -- symbolizing the maternal feminine encompassing all humanity from which the male and the female , from which all tribes , all peoples , have emanated from .
infer: And then , from &quot; UNK &quot; is known in the UNK of UNK UNK , UNK UNK &apos; UNK UNK UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK -- UNK
beam: And then , from &quot; UNK &quot; is known in the UNK of UNK UNK , the mother &apos;s UNK has UNK to the female UNK where men and women , from every tribe , from all tribe , were born . 

post: Và bởi vì tử cung bao bọc hoàn toàn phôi thai đang phát triển trong lòng nó , ma trận thiêng liêng của tình thương nuôi dưỡng toàn bộ sự sống đó .
response: And so just as the womb entirely envelopes the embryo , which grows within it , the divine matrix of compassion nourishes the entire existence .
infer: And because it &apos;s the UNK that &apos;s UNK UNK , it &apos;s UNK UNK UNK UNK that lived . 
beam: And because that &apos;s because the UNK UNK , the fetus is growing in her heart , the UNK UNK UNK for that entire life . 

post: Vì thế chúng ta được dạy rằng &quot; Sự khoan dung của ta bao trùm vạn vật &quot; .
response: Thus we are told that &quot; My mercy encompasses all things . &quot;
infer: So we &apos;re taught that &quot; UNK our UNK . &quot; 
beam: So we &apos;re taught that &quot; UNK our UNK . &quot; 

post: Vì thế chúng ta được dạy rằng &quot; Sự khoan dung của ta chiến thắng cơn phẫn nộ &quot; .
response: Thus we are told that &quot; My mercy takes precedence over my anger . &quot;
infer: So we &apos;re taught that &quot; UNK of UNK the UNK . &quot; 
beam: So we were taught that &quot; tolerance is UNK . &quot; 

post: Cầu cho mỗi chúng ta được ân sủng của lòng khoan dung .
response: May we all be granted a grace of mercy .
infer: May each of us is UNK for tolerance . 
beam: May each of us is UNK for tolerance . 

post: Vỗ tay Cám ơn
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: 5 năm trước , tôi đã trải qua 1 chuyện có chút giống như Alice ở Xứ thần tiên .
response: Five years ago , I experienced a bit of what it must have been like to be Alice in Wonderland .
infer: Five years ago , I went through a little bit like UNK in UNK UNK . 
beam: Five years ago , I went through a little bit like UNK in UNK UNK . 

post: Trường Penn State yêu cầu tôi , một giáo viên dạy giao tiếp dạy một khoá giao tiếp cho sinh viên kỹ thuật .
response: Penn State asked me , a communications teacher , to teach a communications class for engineering students .
infer: My UNK UNK , a teacher UNK program , told a UNK to the students . 
beam: In My UNK , a teacher taught me how to teach one UNK to the students . 

post: Tôi đã rất sợ .
response: And I was scared .
infer: I was scared . 
beam: I was scared . 

post: Thực sự sợ . Sợ những sinh viên to đầu , những quyển sách to đùng và cả những ngôn từ lạ lẫm .
response: Really scared . Scared of these students with their big brains and their big books and their big , unfamiliar words .
infer: It was scared . It was in the UNK , big UNK , and there were UNK . 
beam: It was scared . She was in the top UNK , the UNK and the UNK . 

post: Nhưng khi những cuộc trao đổi mở ra , Tôi đã trải nghiệm điều mà hẳn Alice cũng trải qua khi cô bé rơi xuống hang thỏ và phát hiện cánh cửa dẫn đến 1 thế giới mới .
response: But as these conversations unfolded , I experienced what Alice must have when she went down that rabbit hole and saw that door to a whole new world .
infer: But as the UNK came along , I experienced that experience Alice had been UNK out of the UNK and found the doors to get a new kind of new world . 
beam: But as the UNK came along , I experienced that experience Alice had fallen into the UNK and turned the doors to a new new world . 

post: Đó chỉ là những gì tôi cảm nhận khi trao đổi với sinh viên . Tôi kinh ngạc trước những ý tưởng của họ , và tôi muốn những người khác cũng được trải nghiệm xứ sở thần tiên này .
response: That &apos;s just how I felt as I had those conversations with the students . I was amazed at the ideas that they had , and I wanted others to experience this wonderland as well .
infer: It &apos;s just what I feel when I UNK with students , and I know their ideas , and I want everyone else to have UNK experience . 
beam: It was only what I felt when I was UNK with students , and I was amazed at their ideas , and I wanted everyone else to have the most experimental UNK experience . 

post: Tôi tin rằng chìa khoá mở cánh cửa đến thế giới đó chính là khả năng giao tiếp tốt .
response: And I believe the key to opening that door is great communication .
infer: I believe that the key to open the door is the UNK capability . 
beam: I believe that the key to open the door is the UNK capability . 

post: Chúng ta vô cùng cần giao tiếp hiệu quả với những nhà khoa học và kỹ sư để có thể thay đổi thế giới .
response: We desperately need great communication from our scientists and engineers in order to change the world .
infer: We &apos;re incredibly important to work with the scientists and engineers in order to change the world . 
beam: We are incredibly important to work with scientists and engineers to replace the world . 

post: Nhà khoa học và kỹ sư là những người đang đương đầu với các thách thức lớn nhất , từ năng lượng tới môi trường và y tế , và còn nhiều nữa , Nếu ta không biết và không hiểu điều đó , thì việc sẽ không xong , và tôi tin trách nhiệm của chúng ta , những người không chuyên , là tương tác với họ .
response: Our scientists and engineers are the ones that are tackling our grandest challenges , from energy to environment to health care , among others , and if we don &apos;t know about it and understand it , then the work isn &apos;t done , and I believe it &apos;s our responsibility as non-scientists to have these interactions .
infer: UNK and engineers are the ones of the most important challenges , UNK for the environment and the healthcare , and there &apos;s a lot of them , and if we don &apos;t understand it , the things are not complete , and I do the UNK of our actions
beam: UNK and engineers are the ones of the biggest challenges , from energy to the environment and the health , and the more , if we don &apos;t know it , the things are not , the things that are not going to , and I &apos;m in charge of

post: Nhưng những cuộc trao đổi hiệu quả không thể diễn ra nếu các nhà khoa học và kỹ sư không mời ta vào xứ sở của họ .
response: But these great conversations can &apos;t occur if our scientists and engineers don &apos;t invite us in to see their wonderland .
infer: But UNK UNK can &apos;t happen if scientists and engineers don &apos;t invited us to their own apartment . 
beam: But UNK UNK can &apos;t happen if scientists and engineers don &apos;t invited us to their own apartment . 

post: Hỡi các nhà khoa học và kỹ sư , hãy tám chuyện phiếm với chúng tôi .
response: So scientists and engineers , please , talk nerdy to us .
infer: UNK and engineers , have eight stories with us . 
beam: UNK and engineers , have eight stories with us . 

post: Tôi muốn chia sẻ vài bí quyết để làm được thế để chắc rằng chúng tôi nhận thấy khoa học của các anh thật quyến rũ , sexy kỹ thuật cũng rất hấp dẫn , nóng bỏng .
response: I want to share a few keys on how you can do that to make sure that we can see that your science is sexy and that your engineering is engaging .
infer: I would like to share some bold messages to do so to make sure we find his science , that sexy is also compelling , so hot . 
beam: I would like to share some kinds of secret to do so to make sure we find the science out of the fact that you get , the UNK are also very appealing , very attractive . 

post: Câu hỏi đầu tiên là : Gì cơ ?
response: First question to answer for us : so what ?
infer: The first one is : What did it do ? 
beam: The first one is : What did it do ? 

post: Tại sao khoa học liên quan đến chúng tôi .
response: Tell us why your science is relevant to us .
infer: Why science is something to do with us . 
beam: Why science has to do with us . 

post: Đừng chỉ nói rằng anh nghiên cứu mô xương , mà hãy nói anh nghiên cứu mô xương , nó giống như những cái lưới làm nên xương chúng ta vì cần biết để hiểu về bệnh loãng xương và cách chữa trị .
response: Don &apos;t just tell me that you study trabeculae , but tell me that you study trabeculae , which is the mesh-like structure of our bones because it &apos;s important to understanding and treating osteoporosis .
infer: So let &apos;s just tell you that you study tissue research , but say , you look at bone UNK , it &apos;s like the mesh that UNK us because we need to know understand UNK and UNK . 
beam: Don &apos;t just tell you that you study tissue research , but say , you look at bone UNK , it &apos;s like the mesh that UNK us because we need to know understand UNK and UNK . 

post: Khi mô tả khoa học , hãy cẩn thận khi dùng thuật ngữ .
response: And when you &apos;re describing your science , beware of jargon .
infer: When you measure science , be careful while you take that term . 
beam: When you describe science , be careful in the language . 

post: Thuật ngữ ngăn cản chúng tôi hiểu được ý tưởng của anh .
response: Jargon is a barrier to our understanding of your ideas .
infer: The UNK UNK that we understand your ideas . 
beam: UNK UNK us to understand your ideas . 

post: Chắc chắn có thể nói &quot; spatial and temporal &quot; nhưng sao không dùng &quot; space and time &quot;
response: Sure , you can say &quot; spatial and temporal , &quot; but why not just say &quot; space and time , &quot; which is so much more accessible to us ?
infer: Could probably say &quot; UNK and UNK &quot; -- why not go &quot; UNK and Z. . &quot; 
beam: Of course we can say &quot; UNK and UNK , &quot; but not using &quot; UNK and Fall . &quot; 

post: Làm ý tưởng mình dễ hiểu không phải là hạ thấp chúng .
response: And making your ideas accessible is not the same as dumbing it down .
infer: It &apos;s very easy to understand that it &apos;s not a stop UNK . 
beam: Now , the idea is not to stop them . 

post: Thay vào đó , như Anh-xtanh đã nói : biến mọi thứ càng đơn giản càng tốt , nhưng đừng đơn giản hơn .
response: Instead , as Einstein said , make everything as simple as possible , but no simpler .
infer: Instead , as UNK said , &quot; UNK things &quot; better , &quot; but let &apos;s not simpler . &quot; 
beam: Instead , like UNK said : make everything as simple as possible , but not simpler . 

post: Rõ ràng là anh có thể nói về những vấn đề khoa học mà không làm méo mó ý tưởng .
response: You can clearly communicate your science without compromising the ideas .
infer: It &apos;s clear that you can talk about scientific problems without UNK up . 
beam: It &apos;s clear that you can talk about scientific problems without UNK up . 

post: Nên lưu tâm đến việc nêu ví dụ , kể chuyện , liên tưởng Đó là những cách để lôi cuốn và khiến chúng tôi thích thú những điều anh nói .
response: A few things to consider are having examples , stories and analogies . Those are ways to engage and excite us about your content .
infer: So it was for me , talking , in the story , the UNK , the words for UNK and UNK us in the way that you will . 
beam: So it was for me , talking , in UNK , the way to draw these guys and make us interesting . 

post: Và khi trình bày , đừng sử dụng những gạch đầu dòng .
response: And when presenting your work , drop the bullet points .
infer: And when we have to leave those first tiles . 
beam: And in the moment , don &apos;t use those kinds of UNK . 

post: Đã bao giờ bạn tự hỏi tại sao lại gọi chúng là &quot; gạch đầu dòng &quot; chưa ?
response: Have you ever wondered why they &apos;re called bullet points ?
infer: Have you ever wondered why they &apos;re the UNK cross ? 
beam: Have you ever wondered why it is &quot; UNK cross . &quot; 

post: Khi gạch tên đi thì sao ? Gạch đi là xoá sổ , giết chết luôn ! và chúng cũng sẽ giết bài thuyết trình của anh .
response: What do bullets do ? Bullets kill , and they will kill your presentation .
infer: When the arrow were , how about the UNK ? UNK was UNK , killed all the time ! and they kill his talk . 
beam: When UNK ? UNK are UNK , killed all the time , and they kill his talk . 

post: Một slide như thế này , không những nhàm chán mà còn phụ thuộc quá nhiều vào khu vực ngôn ngữ của não bộ , khiến chúng tôi bị ngốt .
response: A slide like this is not only boring , but it relies too much on the language area of our brain , and causes us to become overwhelmed .
infer: A slide like this , not only the boring ones are so much dependent on the fabric of the brain , making us UNK . 
beam: A slide like this , not only the boring ones are so much dependent on the fabric of the brain , making us UNK . 

post: Thay vào đó , slide ví dụ này của Genevieve Brown thực sự hiểu quả hơn . Nó cho thấy cấu trúc đặc biệt của mô xương mạnh đến nỗi nó thực sự truyền cảm hứng cho thiết kế độc đáo của tháp Ép-phen .
response: Instead , this example slide by Genevieve Brown is much more effective . It &apos;s showing that the special structure of trabeculae are so strong that they actually inspired the unique design of the Eiffel Tower .
infer: Instead , this example of UNK Brown &apos;s actually UNK , and it shows the special structure of the UNK UNK that it actually inspire the UNK design of the UNK UNK . 
beam: Instead , the example of UNK Brown &apos;s actually UNK . It shows the special structure of UNK so much that it really inspire the UNK design of the UNK UNK . 

post: Và mẹo ở đây là sử dụng những câu đơn và dễ đọc khán giả có thể dựa vào đó nếu họ theo không kịp , và rồi sử dụng hình ảnh lôi cuốn các giác quan để giúp ta hiểu sâu sắc hơn những điều được trình bày .
response: And the trick here is to use a single , readable sentence that the audience can key into if they get a bit lost , and then provide visuals which appeal to our other senses and create a deeper sense of understanding of what &apos;s being described .
infer: And the trick here is to use simple and UNK sentences that may be based on it if they &apos;re in empty , and then they use visual imagery imaging to help us to understand the UNK of the UNK . 
beam: And the trick here is to use very simple and UNK sentences that may be based on it if they &apos;re empty , and then they use visual imagery to help us to know beyond the performance . 

post: Tôi nghĩ đây chỉ là vài bí quyết giúp chúng ta mở cánh cửa đó và thấy xứ sở thần tiên của khoa học và công nghệ .
response: So I think these are just a few keys that can help the rest of us to open that door and see the wonderland that is science and engineering .
infer: I think it &apos;s just a few secrets for the fact to open us up and see the UNK of science and technologies . 
beam: I think it &apos;s just a few secrets that help us keep that door and see the UNK of science and technologies . 

post: Những kỹ sư tôi làm việc cùng dạy tôi phải biết suồng sã hoá mọi thứ đi . Cho nên tôi muốn tóm tắt với 1 phương trình .
response: And because the engineers that I &apos;ve worked with have taught me to become really in touch with my inner nerd , I want to summarize with an equation .
infer: The engineers I work with me knew -- UNK things . I want to summarize with a equation . 
beam: The engineers I work with me knew -- UNK it all away , so I wanted to summarize with a process . 

post: Lấy &quot; khoa học &quot; trừ đi &quot; gạch đầu dòng &quot; và &quot; thuật ngữ &quot; rồi chia cho &quot; sự xác đáng &quot; , tức là chia sẻ những giải thích xác đáng với khán giả , sau đó nhân với &quot; đam mê &quot; mà anh dành cho công việc anh đang làm , thì sẽ cho ra kết quả sẽ là Sự tương tác tuyệt vời mang lại Sự hiểu trọn vẹn .
response: Take your science , subtract your bullet points and your jargon , divide by relevance , meaning share what &apos;s relevant to the audience , and multiply it by the passion that you have for this incredible work that you &apos;re doing , and that is going to equal incredible interactions that are full of understanding .
infer: UNK , &apos; end of the UNK of the UNK and the word &quot; UNK &quot; that you &apos;re going to get for your work at work , is going to be this kind of a work , a great interaction that brings complete a complete understanding , a complete
beam: So , &quot; UNK &apos; &quot; UNK , &quot; which is UNK good explanation with the audience , and with the &quot; passion &quot; thing you &apos;re going to get for your work at work , is that I think that &apos;s going to be a great effect that brings

post: Và do đó , hỡi các nhà khoa học và kĩ sư , khi các anh giải phương trình này , bằng mọi giá , hãy nói tám chuyện phiếm với tôi .
response: And so , scientists and engineers , when you &apos;ve solved this equation , by all means , talk nerdy to me .
infer: And so , as scientists and engineers , when you can solve the journey , by all means , just say UNK for me . 
beam: And so , as scientists and engineers , as you can see the journey , it &apos;s all about , say eight UNK to me . 

post: Cảm ơn quý vị .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Xin chào . Tôi là Cameron Russell , và trong khoảng thời gian ngắn ngủi vừa qua , tôi là một người mẫu .
response: Hi . My name is Cameron Russell , and for the last little while I &apos;ve been a model .
infer: Hi . I &apos;m Richard Russell , and for the short time , last time , I am a model . 
beam: Hi . I &apos;m Richard Russell , and for some short time , I &apos;m a sample . 

post: Thật ra , trong 10 năm .
response: Actually , for 10 years .
infer: In fact , in 10 years . 
beam: In fact , in 10 years . 

post: Và tôi cảm thấy có một áp lực không thoải mái trong phòng vào lúc này bởi vì đáng lẽ ra tôi không nên mặc cái đầm này .
response: And I feel like there &apos;s an uncomfortable tension in the room right now because I should not have worn this dress .
infer: And I felt an UNK pressure in the room at the right time because I should shouldn &apos;t wear the UNK . 
beam: And I felt an UNK pressure in the room at the right time because I should shouldn &apos;t wear the UNK . 

post: May mắn thay tôi có mang theo một bộ đồ khác .
response: So luckily I brought an outfit change .
infer: Fortunately I had one another set of things . 
beam: Fortunately I brought a different set of things . 

post: Đây là lần đầu tiên có người thay đồ trên sân khấu của TED vậy nên tôi nghĩ các bạn rất may mắn khi được chứng kiến cảnh này đấy .
response: This is the first outfit change on the TED stage , so you guys are pretty lucky to witness it , I think .
infer: It &apos;s the first time ever to be a UNK on the UNK of TED , so I think you &apos;re very lucky to have seen with this . 
beam: It &apos;s the first time ever to be a UNK on the TED stage so I think you &apos;re very lucky to have seen with this . 

post: Nếu như vài phụ nữ cảm thấy rất sợ hãi khi tôi xuất hiện , bạn không phải nói tôi nghe ngay bây giờ đâu , nhưng rồi tôi sẽ biết qua Twitter thôi .
response: If some of the women were really horrified when I came out , you don &apos;t have to tell me now , but I &apos;ll find out later on Twitter .
infer: If a couple women get scared when I show up , you don &apos;t have to tell me right now , but I &apos;ll get on , OK . 
beam: If a couple women get scared when I show up , you don &apos;t have to tell me right now , but I &apos;ll go to Twitter . 

post: Tôi nhận ra tôi rất là may mắn khi có thể thay đổi những gì bạn nghĩ về tôi trong 10 giây ngắn ngủi .
response: I &apos;d also note that I &apos;m quite privileged to be able to transform what you think of me in a very brief 10 seconds .
infer: I realized I was lucky to change what you thought of me in those 10 seconds of the time . 
beam: I realized I was lucky to be able to change what you thought back to me 10 . 

post: Không phải ai cũng có cơ hội để làm điều này .
response: Not everybody gets to do that .
infer: Not everyone has a chance to do that . 
beam: Not everyone has a chance to do that . 

post: Đôi giày cao gót này thật là không thoải mái tí nào cả , tôi không định sẽ mang chúng .
response: These heels are very uncomfortable , so good thing I wasn &apos;t going to wear them .
infer: This UNK UNK is not good at all , I &apos;m not going to take it all . 
beam: So those UNK UNK are very uncomfortable , I &apos;m not going to take them . 

post: Phần tệ nhất là tròng cái áo dài tay này qua đầu bởi vì thể nào quí vị cũng cười tôi , vậy nên đừng làm gì hết khi nó ở trên đầu tôi .
response: The worst part is putting this sweater over my head , because that &apos;s when you &apos;ll all laugh at me , so don &apos;t do anything while it &apos;s over my head .
infer: The worst part was the UNK of this UNK cross , because you also smile , so don &apos;t do nothing when it &apos;s on my head . 
beam: The worst part was the tip of this UNK UNK , which is because you also smile , so don &apos;t do nothing when it &apos;s on my head . 

post: Xong rồi .
response: All right .
infer: UNK . 
beam: UNK . 

post: Tại sao tôi lại làm như vậy ?
response: So why did I do that ?
infer: Why did I do that ? 
beam: Why do I do that ? 

post: Nó thật là kì cục .
response: That was awkward .
infer: It &apos;s just a major ball . 
beam: It &apos;s very odd . 

post: Thật ra , hy vọng là nó không đến nỗi kì cục như tấm hình này .
response: Well , hopefully not as awkward as that picture .
infer: Well , hopefully it &apos;s not the case of the whole thing that it is that this picture . 
beam: In fact , hopefully it &apos;s not the UNK of the UNK . 

post: Hình ảnh có sức mạnh rất lớn , nhưng nó cũng rất là giả tạo .
response: Image is powerful , but also image is superficial .
infer: UNK images are great , but it is also UNK . 
beam: UNK images are great , but it is also UNK . 

post: Tôi vừa mới thay đổi hoàn toàn những gì bạn nghĩ về tôi trong vòng 6 giây .
response: I just totally transformed what you thought of me in six seconds .
infer: I &apos;ve just changed what you think about in six seconds . 
beam: I just completely changed what you thought about me in six seconds . 

post: Và trong bức ảnh này , thực ra tôi chưa hề có bạn trai nào trong đời thực .
response: And in this picture , I had actually never had a boyfriend in real life .
infer: And in this image , I actually haven &apos;t had a boyfriend in real life . 
beam: And in this image , I actually haven &apos;t had a boyfriend in real life . 

post: Tôi cảm thấy rất không thoải mái tại thời điểm đấy , và nhiếp ảnh gia bảo tôi phài ưỡn lưng và đặt tay lên tóc của anh ta .
response: I was totally uncomfortable , and the photographer was telling me to arch my back and put my hand in that guy &apos;s hair .
infer: I felt very uncomfortable at the time , and my family asked me to UNK back and put his hand on his hair . 
beam: I felt very uncomfortable at the time , and my photographer asked me to UNK back and put his hand on his hair . 

post: Và tất nhiên , trừ việc phẫu thuật , hoặc là làn da rám nắng giả tạo mà tôi có hai ngày trước để chụp ảnh , có rất ít những việc mà chúng ta có thể làm để thay đổi vẻ bề ngoài của mình , và vẻ ngoài của mình , mặc dù nó giả tạo và khó thay đổi , nó lại có ảnh hưởng rất lớn đến đời sống của chúng ta .
response: And of course , barring surgery , or the fake tan that I got two days ago for work , there &apos;s very little that we can do to transform how we look , and how we look , though it is superficial and immutable , has a huge impact on our lives .
infer: And , of course , except the surgery , there &apos;s very little things that we can do to change your appearance , and our appearance , though that it &apos;s kind of UNK and UNK , and it has a very big effect on our lives . 
beam: And , of course , except having surgery , well , there &apos;s very little things that we can do to change your appearance , and our appearance , though it &apos;s kind of UNK and UNK , and it has an enormous effect on our lives . 

post: Vì thế nên hôm nay , với tôi , không sợ gì hết đồng nghĩa với việc thành thật .
response: So today , for me , being fearless means being honest .
infer: So today , with me , doesn &apos;t fear that anything is true . 
beam: So today , with me , it doesn &apos;t mean anything . 

post: Và tôi đứng trên sân khấu này bởi vì tôi là một người mẫu .
response: And I am on this stage because I am a model .
infer: And I stand up here because I &apos;m a model . 
beam: And I &apos;m standing on the stage because I &apos;m a model . 

post: Tôi đứng trên sân khấu này bởi vì tôi xinh đẹp , một phụ nữ da trắng , và trong ngành người mẫu , chúng tôi gọi đó là một cô gái quyến rũ .
response: I am on this stage because I am a pretty , white woman , and in my industry we call that a sexy girl .
infer: I stand on stage because I &apos;m beautiful , a white woman , and in the favela , we call it a UNK girl . 
beam: I stand on stage because I &apos;m beautiful , a white woman , and in the favela , we call it an UNK girl . 

post: Và tôi sẽ trả lời những câu hỏi mà mọi người vẫn luôn hỏi tôi , nhưng với sự thành thật .
response: And I &apos;m going to answer the questions that people always ask me , but with an honest twist .
infer: And I &apos;ll answer the questions that people ask me , but with real achievement . 
beam: And I &apos;ll answer the questions that people ask me , but with real achievement . 

post: Câu hỏi đầu tiên là , làm thế nào mà tôi trở thành người mẫu ?
response: So the first question is , how do you become a model ?
infer: The first question is , how do I become a piece ? 
beam: The first question is , how do I become a piece ? 

post: Và tôi luôn luôn nói : &quot; Oh , tôi được phát hiện &quot; , nhưng nó chả có ý nghĩa gì cả .
response: And I always just say , &quot; Oh , I was scouted , &quot; but that means nothing .
infer: And I always say , &quot; Oh , I get found , but it doesn &apos;t mean anything . 
beam: And I always say , &quot; Oh , I got it , but it doesn &apos;t mean anything . 

post: Thật ra tôi trở thành người mẫu bởi vì tôi thắng giải xổ số di truyền , và tôi là người được nhận tài sản thừa kế , và có thể các bạn đang thắc mắc tài sản thừa kế gì chứ .
response: The real way that I became a model is I won a genetic lottery , and I am the recipient of a legacy , and maybe you &apos;re wondering what is a legacy .
infer: Well I became a UNK because I winning the genetic lottery , and I &apos;m somebody who received the product product , and maybe you &apos;re wondering what the UNK are . 
beam: And actually , I became a UNK because I winning the genetic lottery , and I &apos;m somebody who received the product product , and maybe you &apos;re wondering what the UNK are . 

post: Trong những thập kỉ vừa qua , chúng ta đã định nghĩa sắc đẹp không chỉ là khoẻ mạnh và trẻ trung và sự cân đối mà chúng ta được lập trình về mặt sinh học để khao khát mà còn là chiều cao , những đường nét thanh mảnh và nữ tính , và da trắng .
response: Well , for the past few centuries we have defined beauty not just as health and youth and symmetry that we &apos;re biologically programmed to admire , but also as tall , slender figures , and femininity and white skin .
infer: In the last decade , we have been UNK good and UNK and partners that we &apos;re programmed on a UNK to desire to be UNK , UNK , UNK and UNK . 
beam: In the last decade , we intend to define beauty and the UNK and the UNK that we were programmed on a UNK to desire to be UNK , and also UNK , UNK and UNK . 

post: Đây chính là cái di sản được dựng nên cho tôi và đó là di sản mà tôi kiếm tiền nhờ vào nó .
response: And this is a legacy that was built for me , and it &apos;s a legacy that I &apos;ve been cashing out on .
infer: So this was a UNK that was built for me and that was the legacy that I made money on that . 
beam: So this was the legacy that was built to me , and it was a heritage I made money on it . 

post: Tôi biết rằng có một vài người trong quý vị đang hoài nghi điểm này , và có thể có một vài người mẫu ăn mặc đẹp như là , &quot; Chờ đã . Naomi . Tyra . Joan Smalls . Liu Wen . &quot;
response: And I know there are people in the audience who are skeptical at this point , and maybe there are some fashionistas who are , like , &quot; Wait . Naomi . Tyra . Joan Smalls . Liu Wen . &quot;
infer: I know there are some of you who are UNK about this now , and maybe some of you are UNK right now , &quot; Wait . UNK . UNK UNK . Cobalt UNK . &quot; 
beam: I know there are some of you who are still at this time , and maybe some of you are UNK right now , &quot; Wait . UNK . UNK UNK . Cobalt UNK . &quot; 

post: Tôi muốn khen ngợi sự am hiểu về người mẫu của các bạn . Rất là ấn tượng .
response: And first , I commend you on your model knowledge . Very impressive .
infer: I want to UNK you with your own UNK . That &apos;s so impressive . 
beam: I want to UNK the UNK of your UNK . It &apos;s so impressive . 

post: Nhưng thật không may tôi phải cho các bạn biết năm 2007 , một nghiên cứu sinh tiến sỹ ở đại học New York đã thống kê là tất cả những người mẫu trên sàn diễn , và trong 677 người mẫu được thuê đó chỉ có 27 người , ít hơn 4 % , là không phải da trắng .
response: But unfortunately I have to inform you that in 2007 , a very inspired NYU Ph.D. student counted all the models on the runway , every single one that was hired , and of the 677 models that were hired , only 27 , or less than four percent , were non-white .
infer: But that &apos;s not my case for all of you know in 2007 , the UNK graduate Ph.D. in New York City , and in UNK , that employed , there was only 27 people , less than four percent , not white . 
beam: But I didn &apos;t have to tell you in 2007 , a Ph.D. in the University of New York Ph.D. at the University of New York , and in UNK , that employed , there was only 27 people , less than four percent , not white . 

post: Câu hỏi kế tiếp mà mọi người luôn hỏi tôi là : &quot; Em có thể trở thành người mẫu khi em lớn không ? &quot;
response: The next question people always ask me is , &quot; Can I be a model when I grow up ? &quot;
infer: The next question that people always ask me is : &quot; Can you become a professional person when you grow ? &quot; 
beam: The next question that people always ask me is : &quot; Can you become a professional person when you grow ? &quot; 

post: Và câu trả lời đầu tiên của tôi là : &quot; Chị không biết , chị không phụ trách việc tuyển dụng &quot; .
response: And the first answer is , &quot; I don &apos;t know , they don &apos;t put me in charge of that . &quot;
infer: My first answer was , &quot; You don &apos;t know , you don &apos;t get UNK to logging . &quot; 
beam: And my first answer was , &quot; You don &apos;t know , you &apos;re not UNK . 

post: Nhưng câu trả lời tiếp theo mà tôi thực sự muốn nói với những bé gái đó là : &quot; Tại sao chứ ? &quot;
response: But the second answer , and what I really want to say to these little girls is , &quot; Why ?
infer: But the next big answer I would really want to say to those girls are : &quot; Why ? &quot; 
beam: But the following answer that I really wanted to say to those girls are , &quot; Why ? &quot; 

post: Em biết không ? Em có thể trở thành bất cứ ai .
response: You know ? You can be anything .
infer: You know ? You can be somebody . 
beam: You know ? You can be somebody . 

post: Bạn có thể trở thành Tổng thống nước Mỹ , hoặc người phát minh ra một Internet tiếp theo , hay là một nhà thơ bác sĩ phẩu thuật tim mạch ninja , sẽ rất tuyệt vời phải không , vì em sẽ là người đầu tiên làm chuyện đó &quot; .
response: You could be the President of the United States , or the inventor of the next Internet , or a ninja cardio-thoracic surgeon poet , which would be awesome , because you &apos;d be the first one . &quot;
infer: You could become president of the United States , or you could have invented an Internet , or a UNK UNK UNK , would be pretty amazing , because I &apos;m going to be the first person to do that . &quot; 
beam: You could become in size of the United States , or you could have invented the next Internet , or the UNK UNK , would be great , because I &apos;m going to be the first person to do that . &quot; 

post: Nếu , sau một danh sách thú vị đó , các em vẫn nói rằng : &quot; Không , không , Cameron , em muốn trở thành người mẫu à &quot; , lúc đó tôi sẽ nói : &quot; Làm sếp của chị đi &quot; .
response: If , after this amazing list , they still are like , &quot; No , no , Cameron , I want to be a model , &quot; well then I say , &quot; Be my boss . &quot;
infer: If , after a certain of these interesting books , they said , &quot; No , no , Jack , you want to be the size , &quot; I &apos;ll say , &quot; Make your boss away . &quot; 
beam: If , on a certain list , they &apos;re still saying , &quot; No , no , UNK , you want to be the UNK , &quot; at that point I &apos;ll say , &quot; Make your boss away . &quot; 

post: Vì chị không có quyền lực nào cả , còn em có thể là tổng biên tập của tạp chí Vogue ở Mỹ hoặc Tổng giám đốc của H &amp; amp ; M , hoặc Steven Meisel tương lai .
response: Because I &apos;m not in charge of anything , and you could be the editor in chief of American Vogue or the CEO of H &amp; amp ; M , or the next Steven Meisel .
infer: Because you have no power at all , you can be president of UNK in the United States or R &amp; amp ; UNK , or UNK future . 
beam: Because you have no power at all , you can be president of UNK in the United States or R &amp; amp ; UNK , or UNK future . 

post: Nói rằng em muốn được là người mẫu khi em lớn lên giống như nói em muốn trúng vé số khi em trưởng thành vậy .
response: Saying that you want to be a model when you grow up is akin to saying that you want to win the Powerball when you grow up .
infer: UNK that she wanted to be a UNK when he grew up like that she wanted to pay a ticket when she was growing off . 
beam: So she said that she wanted to be a UNK when he grew up like that she wanted to pay a ticket in her adult . 

post: Nó ngoài tầm kiểm soát của em , và nó thật tuyệt , nhưng đó không phải là một con đường sự nghiệp .
response: It &apos;s out of your control , and it &apos;s awesome , and it &apos;s not a career path .
infer: It &apos;s just outside of its control , and it &apos;s great , but it &apos;s not a UNK path . 
beam: It &apos;s just outside of its control , and it &apos;s great , but it &apos;s not a UNK path . 

post: Tôi sẽ chứng minh cho các bạn -- với 10 năm kinh nghiệm tôi tích luỹ được khi làm người mẫu , vì nó không giống với bác sĩ phẫu thuật tim , nên chỉ cần một thời gian ngắn .
response: I will demonstrate for you now 10 years of accumulated model knowledge , because unlike cardio-thoracic surgeons , it can just be distilled right into -- right now .
infer: I &apos;ll prove to you -- for 10 years of the experience I gained up when I do that , because it &apos;s not the same with the bypass UNK , so it takes a short time . 
beam: I &apos;m going to prove that to you -- for 10 years of the experience that I &apos;ve gained up as a model , because it &apos;s not the same with the bypass UNK , so it takes a short time . 

post: Nếu nhiếp ảnh gia đứng ở đây còn ánh sáng thì ở kia , giống như là một giao diện tương tác đẹp , và khi khách hàng bảo : &quot; Cameron chúng tôi muốn bức ảnh em đang bước đi &quot; , thế là cái chân này đi trước , đẹp và dài , cái tay này thì đánh về sau , còn cái này thì đưa ra trước , đầu thì ở vị trí ba phần tư , và bạn chỉ đơn giản là đi tới đi lui , chỉ cần làm điều đó , và sau đó bạn quay đầu nhìn phía sau , tưởng tượng đó là bạn bè của bạn , 300 , 400 , 500 lần .
response: So if the photographer is right there and the light is right there , like a nice HMI , and the client says , &quot; Cameron , we want a walking shot , &quot; well then this leg goes first , nice and long , this arm goes back , this arm goes forward , the head is at three quarters , and you just go back and forth , just do that , and then you look back at your imaginary friends , 300 , 400 , 500 times .
infer: UNK on the UNK is going to go , and that &apos;s what it is , and it &apos;s a UNK , and it &apos;s just about , and it &apos;s a UNK interface , and it &apos;s a UNK that has been just gone and it &apos;s going to
beam: So , you know , the UNK would be UNK , and the one is just going back and forth , and it &apos;s going to work , and it &apos;s going to work , and it &apos;s going to work , and it &apos;s going to work , and

post: Giống như thế này đây .
response: It will look something like this .
infer: Like this . 
beam: Like this . 

post: Hi vọng là nó ít kì cục hơn tấm hình ở giữa
response: Hopefully less awkward than that one in the middle .
infer: I hope it &apos;s less -- less than the picture in the middle . 
beam: I hope it &apos;s less UNK than a picture in the middle . 

post: Tôi không biết điều gì xảy ra trong lúc đó nữa .
response: That was , I don &apos;t know what happened there .
infer: I didn &apos;t know what was going on in that moment . 
beam: I didn &apos;t know what happened in that moment . 

post: Thật đáng tiếc sau khi bạn học xong , bạn viết résumé và từng làm một vài việc , bạn không thể nói thêm điều gì nữa , vì nếu bạn nói muốn trở thành Tổng thống Hoa Kỳ nhưng résumé của bạn lại ghi : &quot; Người mẫu đồ lót : 10 năm &quot; , người ta sẽ nhìn bạn với ánh mắt khác lạ .
response: Unfortunately after you &apos;ve gone to school , and you have a résumé and you &apos;ve done a few jobs , you can &apos;t say anything anymore , so if you say you want to be the President of the United States , but your résumé reads , &quot; Underwear Model : 10 years , &quot; people give you a funny look .
infer: UNK , if you &apos;re finished , you &apos;re writing UNK and you &apos;ve been working on a few UNK , and you can &apos;t say something , because if you &apos;re going to become president , you can &apos;t say , &quot; Spider-Man UNK : Ten years , &quot;
beam: UNK , if you &apos;re finished , you &apos;re writing UNK and you &apos;ve got a few things , because if you &apos;re going to become president , you can &apos;t say : &quot; Spider-Man UNK : Ten years , &quot; people will look at you with a strange eyes

post: Câu hỏi tiếp theo mà người ta luôn hỏi tôi : &quot; Có phải tất cả các tấm ảnh đều được chỉnh sửa đúng không ? &quot;
response: The next question people always ask me is , &quot; Do they retouch all the photos ? &quot;
infer: The next question that people are always asking me : &quot; Are we all of all the photographs going on , right ? &quot; 
beam: The next question that people are always asking me : &quot; Are we all UNK all the photographs ? &quot; 

post: Đúng vậy đấy , gần như là tất cả các tấm ảnh đều được chỉnh sửa , nhưng đó chỉ là một yếu tố nhỏ trong những việc đang diễn ra .
response: And yeah , they pretty much retouch all the photos , but that is only a small component of what &apos;s happening .
infer: That &apos;s , almost all UNK pictures , but it &apos;s a small element in what &apos;s going on . 
beam: That &apos;s , almost all UNK pictures , but it &apos;s just a sort of small element in what &apos;s going on . 

post: Đây là một trong những tấm ảnh đầu tiên mà tôi từng chụp , cũng là lần đầu tiên tôi chụp ảnh đồ tắm , và lúc đó tôi thậm chí chưa có chu kỳ kinh nguyệt nữa .
response: This picture is the very first picture that I ever took , and it &apos;s also the very first time that I had worn a bikini , and I didn &apos;t even have my period yet .
infer: This was one of my first images of ever , and I was also a picture of a UNK , and I had no UNK UNK . 
beam: This was one of the first images that I &apos;d ever photographed , which was the first time I took a picture of bathroom , and then I hadn &apos;t even had a UNK yet . 

post: Tôi biết rằng ta đang đi sâu vào chuyện cá nhân nhưng lúc đó tôi đang là một cô bé .
response: I know we &apos;re getting personal , but I was a young girl .
infer: I know that we &apos;re going into personal little personal conversation , but I was a little girl . 
beam: I know that we &apos;re going into personal conversation , but then I &apos;m a little girl . 

post: Đây là vẻ ngoài của tôi , chụp cạnh bà của mình trước đó vài tháng .
response: This is what I looked like with my grandma just a few months earlier .
infer: This is my UNK , UNK her sister back to a few months ago . 
beam: This is a little bit of UNK , a UNK aspect of my grandmother before a few months ago . 

post: Đây là tôi trong cùng một ngày khi chụp bức ảnh trên .
response: Here &apos;s me on the same day as this shoot .
infer: This is me in the same day when I photographed photos . 
beam: This is me with another day when I photographed photos . 

post: Cô bạn của tôi đã đi cùng tôi .
response: My friend got to come with me .
infer: My friend came along with me . 
beam: My friend came along with me . 

post: Đây là tôi ở tiệc ngủ vài ngày trước khi chụp ảnh cho Vogue Pháp .
response: Here &apos;s me at a slumber party a few days before I shot French Vogue .
infer: So I was in the UNK a few days before I took photos of the French UNK . 
beam: This is me at the UNK days before I took photos of the French UNK . 

post: Đây là tôi với đội bóng đá trong tạp chí V.
response: Here &apos;s me on the soccer team and in V Magazine .
infer: This is me with the UNK in UNK magazine . 
beam: This is me with the UNK in UNK magazine . 

post: Và đây là tôi bây giờ .
response: And here &apos;s me today .
infer: And here &apos;s me . 
beam: And here &apos;s me . 

post: Tôi mong rằng bạn nhìn ra được -- những bức ảnh trên không phải là hình ảnh của tôi .
response: And I hope what you &apos;re seeing is that these pictures are not pictures of me .
infer: I hope you see that you see -- these pictures are not my picture . 
beam: I expect you to see -- these pictures were not my images . 

post: Đó là những hình ảnh được dựng lên , và nó được dựng nên bởi một nhóm các chuyên gia , những nhà tạo mẫu tóc , những chuyên gia trang điểm , nhiếp ảnh gia , và những nhà tạo phong cách và tất cả những người trợ lý của họ , khâu tiền sản xuất , và hậu sản xuất , và họ tạo nên cái này đây . Đó không phải là tôi .
response: They are constructions , and they are constructions by a group of professionals , by hairstylists and makeup artists and photographers and stylists and all of their assistants and pre-production and post-production , and they build this . That &apos;s not me .
infer: These are images that are built , and it &apos;s built by a group of experts , UNK , UNK , UNK and UNK , and they created this . UNK , and they created this . It &apos;s not me . 
beam: These are images created , and it &apos;s built by a group of experts , UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK and UNK and all of their UNK , UNK money , and UNK , and they created this . It &apos;s not me . 

post: Câu hỏi kế tiếp mà tôi được nhiều người hỏi là : &quot; Bạn được cho miễn phí cái gì không ? &quot;
response: Okay , so the next question people always ask me is , &quot; Do you get free stuff ? &quot;
infer: The next question that I got a bunch of people said , &quot; What are you for free ? &quot; 
beam: The next question that I got a bunch of people said , &quot; What are you for free ? &quot; 

post: Tôi có rất nhiều đôi giầy cao gót 20cm mà tôi không bao giờ mang , lúc nãy là ngoại lệ , nhưng những thứ miễn phí mà tôi nhận được là những thứ mà tôi có ở ngoài đời thực , và đó là những thứ mà chúng ta không muốn nhắc đến .
response: I do have too many 8-inch heels which I never get to wear , except for earlier , but the free stuff that I get is the free stuff that I get in real life , and that &apos;s what we don &apos;t like to talk about .
infer: I have many UNK UNK UNK that I could never wear , but the exception of birth , but the free thing that I perceive is that the stuff I have in the real world , and that &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t want to talk about .
beam: I have a lot of UNK UNK UNK that I could never take , but the exception of birth , but the free thing that I perceive is that the stuff I have in the real world , and that &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t want to talk

post: Tôi lớn lên ở Cambridge , và lần nọ , tôi đến cửa hàng , và tôi đã quên đem theo tiền và họ đã cho tôi miễn phí một cái áo đầm .
response: I grew up in Cambridge , and one time I went into a store and I forgot my money and they gave me the dress for free .
infer: I grew up in Cambridge , and I came to the UNK , and I went to the shop , and I just forgot to give money money , and they gave me a free UNK . 
beam: I grew up in Cambridge , and I came home , and I went to the UNK , and I forgot to give money money , and they gave me a free UNK . 

post: Khi còn là một thiếu nữ , tôi ngồi xe một người bạn cô ta là một người lái xe rất đáng sợ và cô đã vượt đèn đỏ , chúng tôi bị bắt dừng lại , và tất cả những gì tôi đã làm là nói rằng : &quot; Xin lỗi chú cảnh sát &quot; , và chúng tôi đã có thể đi tiếp .
response: When I was a teenager , I was driving with my friend who was an awful driver and she ran a red and of course , we got pulled over , and all it took was a &quot; Sorry , officer , &quot; and we were on our way .
infer: When I was a teenager , I was in a car , and she was a horrible UNK , and she was UNK , and all I did was saying , &quot; No nerdy , &quot; and so we can go . 
beam: When I was a teenager , I was in a car , and she was a horrible driver , and she was UNK , and all I was doing was saying , &quot; No , UNK , &quot; and we were able to go on . 

post: Tôi có được những thứ miễn phí đó là nhờ vào vẻ ngoài của tôi , không phải vì tôi là ai và có những người sẵn sàng chi nhiều tiền cho vẻ bề ngoài của họ chứ không phải vì họ là ai .
response: And I got these free things because of how I look , not who I am , and there are people paying a cost for how they look and not who they are .
infer: I have that UNK that &apos;s UNK to me , because I &apos;m not , and people who are willing to spend a lot of money on their appearance , rather than they are . 
beam: I have that free stuff because of my UNK , not because who &apos;s ready to spend a lot of money on their appearance , rather than they are . 

post: Tôi sống ở New York , và năm vừa rồi , trong 140 ngàn thiếu niên bị bắt và bị lục soát , có 86 % là người da đen và người La Tinh , phần lớn là những thiếu niên trẻ .
response: I live in New York , and last year , of the 140,000 teenagers that were stopped and frisked , 86 percent of them were black and Latino , and most of them were young men .
infer: I live in New York , and the last year , in UNK , have UNK , and has 86 percent black and UNK , which is largely young teenagers . 
beam: I live in New York City , and this year , in UNK , UNK , have 86 percent UNK and UNK , mostly teenagers . 

post: Ở New York , chỉ có 177 ngàn người da đen và người La Tinh , vì vậy đối với họ , câu hỏi không phải là &quot; Tôi có bị bắt không ? &quot;
response: And there are only 177,000 young black and Latino men in New York , so for them , it &apos;s not a question of , &quot; Will I get stopped ? &quot;
infer: In New York , there is only five and a half black people black and brave , so to whom , the question is not &quot; Am I not arrested ? &quot; 
beam: In New York , there was only five and a half black people black and brave , so to whom , the question was not &quot; Am I arrested ? &quot; 

post: mà là &quot; Tôi sẽ bị bắt bao nhiêu lần và khi nào ? &quot;
response: but &quot; How many times will I get stopped ? When will I get stopped ? &quot;
infer: I &apos;m going to get caught up and when ? &quot; 
beam: I &apos;m going to get caught again and when ? &quot; 

post: Khi tôi chuẩn bị cho buổi nói chuyện này , Tôi phát hiện rằng 53 % những cô bé 13 tuổi ở Mỹ không thích cơ thể của mình , và con số này lên đến 78 % khi họ 17 tuổi .
response: When I was researching this talk , I found out that of the 13-year-old girls in the United States , 53 percent don &apos;t like their bodies , and that number goes to 78 percent by the time that they &apos;re 17 .
infer: When I was preparing for this talk , I found that 53 percent of the UNK UNK in America didn &apos;t like their bodies , and this number up until she was 17 . 
beam: When I was preparing for this talk , I found that 53 percent of the UNK in the U.S. did not like her body , and this number up to 78 percent when they were 17 years old . 

post: Câu hỏi cuối cùng mà người ta hỏi tôi là : &quot; Cảm giác thế nào khi được là người mẫu ? &quot;
response: So the last question people ask me is , &quot; What is it like to be a model ? &quot;
infer: The last question that people ask me is : &quot; How does this experience when you get a pattern ? &quot; 
beam: The last question that people ask for me is : &quot; How does it feel like a pattern ? &quot; 

post: Tôi nghĩ rằng cái họ muốn được nghe là &quot; Nếu bạn gầy hơn một chút , và tóc bạn óng ả hơn , bạn sẽ rất hạnh phúc và sung sướng &quot; .
response: And I think the answer that they &apos;re looking for is , &quot; If you are a little bit skinnier and you have shinier hair , you will be so happy and fabulous . &quot;
infer: I think what they want is &quot; If you &apos;re thinner , &quot; and your hair UNK gets more , and you &apos;re very happy and generous . &quot; 
beam: I think what they want to hear is &quot; If you &apos;re thinner , &quot; and your hair UNK louder , you &apos;d be happy and UNK . &quot; 

post: Còn khi chúng tôi ở sau cánh gà , chúng tôi đưa ra câu trả lời đại loại như là :
response: And when we &apos;re backstage , we give an answer that maybe makes it seem like that .
infer: When we were leaving the chicken , we came up with the answers of the UNK . 
beam: When we were leaving the chicken , we came up with the answers of the UNK . 

post: &quot; Thật là tuyệt vời khi đi du lịch , và làm việc với những người sáng tạo , đầy cảm hứng và nhiệt huyết &quot; .
response: We say , &quot; It &apos;s really amazing to travel , and it &apos;s amazing to get to work with creative , inspired , passionate people . &quot;
infer: It &apos;s great to go , to travel , to work with creative people , inspiration and enthusiasm . &quot; 
beam: It &apos;s just wonderful to travel , and work with creative makers and UNK . 

post: Và những điều đó là sự thật , nhưng đó chỉ là một nửa thôi , vì điều mà chúng tôi không bao giờ nói ra trước ống kính , điều mà tôi không bao giờ nói trước ống kính , là : &quot; Tôi bất an &quot; .
response: And those things are true , but they &apos;re only one half of the story , because the thing that we never say on camera , that I have never said on camera , is , &quot; I am insecure . &quot;
infer: And that &apos;s true , but it was only half , because that &apos;s not half , because that &apos;s not the case that we never talked about in front of glass , which I never had to say before the lens was , &quot; I am UNK . &quot;
beam: And those are true , and it &apos;s only half , because that &apos;s not only half , because what we &apos;re never trying to say in front of glasses , which I never would say before the lens was , &quot; I am UNK . &quot; 

post: Tôi bất an vì tôi phải suy nghĩ về hình ảnh của tôi mỗi ngày .
response: And I &apos;m insecure because I have to think about what I look like every day .
infer: I &apos;m UNK because I have to think about my image everyday . 
beam: I am uncomfortable because I have to think about my image everyday . 

post: Và các bạn có bao giờ tự hỏi chính mình &quot; Nếu đùi mình thon hơn và tóc mình óng ả hơn , vậy mình sẽ hạnh phúc hơn không ? &quot;
response: And if you ever are wondering , &quot; If I have thinner thighs and shinier hair , will I be happier ? &quot;
infer: And you ever yourself yourself yourself : &quot; If you &apos;re more willing to stick and your hair get faster , so are they going to be happier ? &quot; 
beam: And you ever yourself yourself yourself : &quot; If you &apos;re more UNK than your UNK and your hair are more UNK , then I &apos;ll be happier ? &quot; 

post: Bạn chỉ cần gặp gỡ một nhóm người mẫu , vì họ có đôi chân thon nhất , bộ tóc óng ả nhất và mặc những bộ đồ đẹp nhất , và họ có thể là những người phụ nữ bất an nhất trên hành tinh này .
response: you just need to meet a group of models , because they have the thinnest thighs and the shiniest hair and the coolest clothes , and they &apos;re the most physically insecure women probably on the planet .
infer: You just met a group of UNK , because they have the UNK UNK , the most UNK hair and the most beautiful UNK , and they &apos;re probably the most UNK women on the planet . 
beam: You just met a group of UNK , because they have the UNK ones , the most UNK hair and the most beautiful UNK , and they could be the most UNK women on the planet . 

post: Khi tôi viết bài phát biểu này , tôi cảm thấy rất khó khăn để tìm ra sự cân bằng thật sự , vì một mặt , tôi cảm thấy rất không thoải mái khi đến đây để nói &quot; Tôi có được tất cả những thứ này vì tôi được thần may mắn phù hộ , &quot; và cũng cảm thấy thực sự khó chịu để tiếp theo với câu &quot; nhưng nó luôn không làm cho tôi hạnh phúc &quot; .
response: So when I was writing this talk , I found it very difficult to strike an honest balance , because on the one hand , I felt very uncomfortable to come out here and say , &quot; Look I &apos;ve received all these benefits from a deck stacked in my favor , &quot; and it also felt really uncomfortable to follow that up with , &quot; and it doesn &apos;t always make me happy . &quot;
infer: I &apos;m just in writing the paper , and I &apos;m feeling it very difficult to find out the real balance , because I &apos;m feeling really difficult to find out the real UNK , and I &apos;m feeling really difficult to find out the real balance of the UNK
beam: Now , when I wrote this talk , I was so hard to find out the real UNK , and I &apos;m feeling very difficult to find out the UNK , and I &apos;m feeling really difficult to find out the real balance , &quot; and feel that it &apos;s

post: Nhưng chủ yếu là thật khó mà tháo tung một di sản về giới tính và vấn đề sắc tộc trong khi tôi là một trong những người hưởng lợi lớn nhất .
response: But mostly it was difficult to unpack a legacy of gender and racial oppression when I am one of the biggest beneficiaries .
infer: But it &apos;s mostly difficult to do , to UNK a legacy of gender and UNK while I am one of the biggest UNK of the world . 
beam: But mostly it &apos;s very difficult to begin to see the sexual heritage of gender and UNK while I &apos;m one of the greatest UNK . 

post: Nhưng tôi cũng là vui mừng và vinh dự lên đây tôi nghĩ rằng nó là may mắn là tôi đã đến trước khi 10 , 20 hay 30 năm trôi qua và tôi đã từng làm việc với nhiều công ty trong sự nghiệp của mình , bởi vì khi đó tôi có thể sẽ không thể kể chuyện làm thế nào tôi có công việc đầu tiên , hay có lẽ tôi sẽ không nói ra chuyện về làm thế nào tôi có tiền đóng học phí , mà có vẻ quan trọng như vậy ngay lúc này .
response: But I &apos;m also happy and honored to be up here and I think that it &apos;s great that I got to come before 10 or 20 or 30 years had passed and I &apos;d had more agency in my career , because maybe then I wouldn &apos;t tell the story of how I got my first job , or maybe I wouldn &apos;t tell the story of how I paid for college , which seems so important right now .
infer: But I was also excited and honored to come up and come up with that , and I thought it was a fortune that I was going to go before 10 , 20 or 30 years ago , and I was going to do a talk about how I had
beam: But I was also excited and honored to come up and I thought it was lucky that I was going to get up until 10 , 20 or 30 years ago , and I was probably going to talk about how I had the first work , or perhaps I

post: Nếu có một điều gì đọng lại trong buổi trò chuyện này , tôi hy vọng nó là tất cả chúng ta đều cảm thấy thoải mái hơn khi thừa nhận sức mạnh của hình ảnh trong nhận thức về thành công và thất bại của chúng ta .
response: If there &apos;s a takeaway to this talk , I hope it &apos;s that we all feel more comfortable acknowledging the power of image in our perceived successes and our perceived failures .
infer: If there &apos;s a UNK in this talk , I hope that we all feel comfortable in the way that the power of the image in our perception of success and our failure . 
beam: If there is something UNK in this talk , I hope that we all feel comfortable in the way the power of the internal image of our perception and our failures . 

post: Cảm ơn các bạn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Có rất nhiều cách mà những người ở xung quanh chúng ta có thể giúp cải thiện cuộc sống của chúng ta
response: There are a lot of ways the people around us can help improve our lives .
infer: There are so many ways that people in that interest around us can help improve our lives . 
beam: There are so many ways that people are around us can help improve our lives . 

post: Chúng ta không đụng vào mỗi người xung quanh , vì vậy có rất nhiều sự thông thái không bao giờ được biết tới , dù chúng ta cùng chia sẻ những không gian công cộng .
response: We don &apos;t bump into every neighbor , so a lot of wisdom never gets passed on , though we do share the same public spaces .
infer: We don &apos;t touch each other around , so there &apos;s a lot of UNK that never gets known , whether we share public spaces . 
beam: We don &apos;t touch each other people around us , so there &apos;s a lot of UNK there , although we share public spaces . 

post: Vì vậy vài năm qua , tôi đang cố gắng nhiều cách để chia sẻ nhiều hơn với các hàng xóm của tôi ở không gian công cộng , sử dụng các công cụ đơn giản như giấy dán , giấy đục lỗ và phấn .
response: So over the past few years , I &apos;ve tried ways to share more with my neighbors in public space , using simple tools like stickers , stencils and chalk .
infer: So over the past several years , I &apos;m trying to share a lot of ways to share a lot more with my neighbors in public spaces , using simple tools like paper , paper UNK , UNK paper , paper paper , UNK paper , paper , paper ,
beam: So over the past several years , I &apos;m trying to share a lot of ways to share a lot more with my neighbors in public spaces , using simple tools like paper , paper UNK , UNK paper , paper paper , UNK paper . 

post: Và những dự án này đến từ những câu hỏi tôi đặt ra , như là , hàng xóm của tôi phải trả bao nhiêu tiền cho những căn hộ của họ ?
response: And these projects came from questions I had , like , how much are my neighbors paying for their apartments ?
infer: And these projects come from the questions that I asked , like , how much would my home pay for their apartments ? 
beam: And these projects come from the questions that I asked , like , how much would my home pay for their apartments ? 

post: Làm thế nào chúng ta cho mượn và mượn nhiều thứ hơn mà không gõ cửa nhà của nhau vào thời điểm xấu ?
response: How can we lend and borrow more things without knocking on each other &apos;s doors at a bad time ?
infer: How are we going to borrow and throw more with that , not to say ? 
beam: How are we going to borrow and spend more things without knocking at the UNK &apos;s house at bad times ? 

post: Làm thế nào chúng ta chia sẻ nhiều hơn những kí ức của chúng ta về những toà nhà bị bỏ hoang , và thu nhận hiểu biết tốt hơn về cảnh quan của chúng ta ?
response: How can we share more of our memories of our abandoned buildings , and gain a better understanding of our landscape ?
infer: How do we share our memories of UNK buildings , and knowing what we are best from our landscape ? 
beam: How can we share our memories of UNK buildings , and knowing what our landscape are ? 

post: Và làm thế nào chúng ta chia sẻ nhiều hơn những hy vọng của chúng ta cho các cửa hàng mặt tiền còn trống , như vậy các cộng đồng của chúng ta có thể phản ánh nhu cầu và mơ ước của chúng ta hiện nay ?
response: And how can we share more of our hopes for our vacant storefronts , so our communities can reflect our needs and dreams today ?
infer: And how do we share our hope for our UNK restaurants for the rest of the world , so our communities can reflect our needs and our dream ? 
beam: And how can we share our hope for the rest of the world , so our communities can reflect our needs and our dream for now ? 

post: Hiện tại , tôi sống ở New Orleans , và tôi đang yêu New Orleans ,
response: Now , I live in New Orleans , and I am in love with New Orleans .
infer: Now , I live in New Orleans , and I &apos;m in New Orleans . 
beam: Now , I live in New Orleans , and I &apos;m in New Orleans . 

post: Tâm hồn tôi luôn luôn được xoa dịu bởi những cây sồi còn sống khổng lồ , phủ bóng lên những kẻ đang yêu , những kẻ say và những kẻ mơ mộng hàng trăm năm , và tôi tin tưởng vào thành phố mà luôn tạo chỗ cho âm nhạc .
response: My soul is always soothed by the giant live oak trees , shading lovers , drunks and dreamers for hundreds of years , and I trust a city that always makes way for music .
infer: UNK has always been UNK by UNK , UNK UNK , UNK UNK , and UNK years of years , and I believe in the city that I always creates music for music . 
beam: UNK has always been UNK by the UNK , the UNK , the UNK and the UNK for hundred years , and I believe in the city that are always creating music for music . 

post: Tôi cảm thấy giống mỗi lần ai đó hắt xì , New Orleans có cả một cuộc diễu hành .
response: I feel like every time someone sneezes , New Orleans has a parade .
infer: I feel like every time somebody UNK , New Orleans has a UNK . 
beam: I feel like every time somebody UNK , New Orleans has an expedition . 

post: Thành phố có một số công trình kiến trúc đẹp nhất trên thế giới , nhưng nó cũng có một số lượng lớn nhất những giá trị bị bỏ phế ở Mỹ .
response: The city has some of the most beautiful architecture in the world , but it also has one of the highest amounts of abandoned properties in America .
infer: There have some one &apos;s best available technology in the world , but it also has some of the largest numbers of UNK in the United States . 
beam: There have some UNK available progress in the world , but it also has some of the largest numbers of UNK in the United States . 

post: Tôi sống gần căn nhà này , và tôi nghĩ làm sao tôi có thể làm nó trở thành nơi đẹp hơn cho khu dân cư của tôi , và tôi cũng nghĩ về một thứ gì đó có thể thay đổi cuộc đời tôi mãi mãi .
response: I live near this house , and I thought about how I could make it a nicer space for my neighborhood , and I also thought about something that changed my life forever .
infer: I &apos;m living along this house , and I thought , how could I make it a little bit better for my people , and I also think of something that we can change my life forever . 
beam: I &apos;m living along this house , and I thought , how could I make it a little bit better for my people , and I also think of something that we can change my life forever . 

post: Vào năm 2009 , tôi mất đi một người tôi vô cùng yêu quý .
response: In 2009 , I lost someone I loved very much .
infer: In 2009 , I lost a really loved person to do not . 
beam: In 2009 , I lost my loved ones . 

post: Tên bà là Joan , và bà là một người mẹ đối với tôi , và cái chết của bà là sự bất ngờ và không lường được .
response: Her name was Joan , and she was a mother to me , and her death was sudden and unexpected .
infer: Her name was Irish , and she was a mother for me , and her death was UNK and UNK . 
beam: Her name was Irish , and she was a mother for me , and her death was unexpected and unexpected . 

post: Và tôi đã nghĩ về cái chết rất nhiều , và điều này làm tôi cảm giác biết ơn sâu đậm cho những thời gian tôi đã có , và mang lại sự rõ ràng cho những điều có ý nghĩa cho cuộc đời tôi bây giờ
response: And I thought about death a lot , and this made me feel deep gratitude for the time I &apos;ve had , and brought clarity to the things that are meaningful to my life now .
infer: And I thought about death so much , and this makes me feeling deep so much for my life , and made a clear distinction for what was relevant for my life now . 
beam: And I thought about death so much , and this made me feeling deep UNK for the time that I had had , and made a clear distinction for what was meant for my life now . 

post: Nhưng tôi đấu tranh để duy trì góc nhìn này trong cuộc sống hàng ngày của mình .
response: But I struggle to maintain this perspective in my daily life .
infer: But I struggled to maintain this vision in my daily lives . 
beam: But I struggled to maintain that vision in my daily lives . 

post: Tôi cảm giác như thật dễ để nắm bắt được theo ngày qua ngày , và quên mất điều thực sự có ý nghĩa với bạn .
response: I feel like it &apos;s easy to get caught up in the day-to-day , and forget what really matters to you .
infer: It was the feeling that I felt , it was so easy to grasp up yesterday , and it never matter to me . 
beam: I felt as easy to capture the past day , and forgotten things matter to you . 

post: Vì vậy với sự giúp đỡ của những người bạn cũ và mới , tôi chuyển một bên của toà nhà bỏ hoang này thành một bảng phấn khổng lồ và tô khuôn nó với một câu điền-vào-chỗ-trống : &quot; Trước khi tôi chết , tôi muốn ... &quot; để bất kì ai đi ngang qua có thể nhặt một mảnh phấn , phản ánh cuộc đời của họ , và chia sẻ khát vọng cá nhân của họ trong không gian công cộng .
response: So with help from old and new friends , I turned the side of this abandoned house into a giant chalkboard and stenciled it with a fill-in-the-blank sentence : &quot; Before I die , I want to ... &quot; So anyone walking by can pick up a piece of chalk , reflect on their lives , and share their personal aspirations in public space .
infer: So , with the help of the old friend and new UNK , I was walking to this UNK , UNK to the UNK of the UNK , to UNK their lives , to share their lives , and share their individual UNK in public space . 
beam: So , with the help of the old friend and new UNK , and I was walking around to this UNK , and I wanted to ... &quot; For anybody who walked along could pick up a piece of pollen , reflecting their lives , and share their individual UNK

post: Tôi không biết phải trông đợi điều gì từ cuộc thử nghiệm này , nhưng vào ngày hôm sau , bức tường đã hoàn toàn được phủ kín , và nó cứ tiếp tục phát triển .
response: I didn &apos;t know what to expect from this experiment , but by the next day , the wall was entirely filled out , and it kept growing .
infer: I didn &apos;t know what I expect for this experiment , but on the next day , the wall was completely UNK , and it was continued to development . 
beam: I didn &apos;t know what to expect from this trial , but on the next day , the wall was completely UNK , and it was continued to development . 

post: Và tôi muốn chia sẻ một vài điều về cái mọi người viết trên bức tường đó .
response: And I &apos;d like to share a few things that people wrote on this wall .
infer: And I want to share something about what people write on that wall . 
beam: And I want to share something about what people write on that wall . 

post: &quot; Trước khi tôi chết , tôi muốn thử ăn cướp . &quot;
response: &quot; Before I die , I want to be tried for piracy . &quot;
infer: &quot; Before I die , I want to eat . &quot; 
beam: &quot; Before I die , I want to eat . &quot; 

post: &quot; Trước khi tôi chết , tôi muốn được dang chân trên Đường Đổi ngày Quốc tế . &quot;
response: &quot; Before I die , I want to straddle the International Date Line . &quot;
infer: &quot; Before I die , I want to go up in the UNK UNK Day . &quot; 
beam: &quot; Before I die , I want to go up in the UNK UNK Day . &quot; 

post: &quot; Trước khi tôi chết , tôi muốn được hát cho hàng triệu người . &quot;
response: &quot; Before I die , I want to sing for millions . &quot;
infer: &quot; Before I die , I want to sing to a million people . &quot; 
beam: &quot; Before I die , I want to sing to a million people . &quot; 

post: &quot; Trước khi tôi chết , tôi muốn trồng một cái cây . &quot;
response: &quot; Before I die , I want to plant a tree . &quot;
infer: &quot; Before I die , I want to grow a tree . &quot; 
beam: &quot; Before I die , I want to grow a tree . &quot; 

post: &quot; Trước khi tôi chết , tôi muốn sống ngoài khuôn phép . &quot;
response: &quot; Before I die , I want to live off the grid . &quot;
infer: &quot; Before I die , I want to live the UNK . &quot; 
beam: &quot; Before I die , I want to live the UNK . &quot; 

post: &quot; Trước khi tôi chết , tôi muốn được ôm cô ấy một lần nữa . &quot;
response: &quot; Before I die , I want to hold her one more time . &quot;
infer: &quot; Before I die , I want to see her again again . &quot; 
beam: &quot; Before I die , I want to marry her again again . &quot; 

post: &quot; Trước khi tôi chết , tôi muốn thành kị binh của ai đó &quot;
response: &quot; Before I die , I want to be someone &apos;s cavalry . &quot;
infer: &quot; Before I die , I want to be UNK anybody &apos;s UNK . &quot; 
beam: &quot; Before I die , I want to be UNK somebody &apos;s UNK . &quot; 

post: &quot; Trước khi tôi chết , tôi muốn hoàn toàn là chính mình . &quot;
response: &quot; Before I die , I want to be completely myself . &quot;
infer: &quot; Before I die , I want to be completely close . &quot; 
beam: &quot; Before I die , I want to be completely myself . &quot; 

post: Vậy không gian bị bỏ bê này đã trở thành một không gian kiến tạo , và những hy vọng và những ước mơ của mọi người khiến tôi cười phá lên , chảy nước mắt , và chúng an ủi tôi trong suốt những thời gian khó khăn của mình .
response: So this neglected space became a constructive one , and people &apos;s hopes and dreams made me laugh out loud , tear up , and they consoled me during my own tough times .
infer: So , this space became a UNK space , and yet the dreams of people that make me laugh , go ahead , UNK their eyes , and they comfort me for their tough moments . 
beam: So , this space became a UNK space , and some hope and dreams of people make me laugh , UNK them , and they comfort me for their tough moments . 

post: Đó là về biết rằng bạn không chỉ có một mình .
response: It &apos;s about knowing you &apos;re not alone .
infer: It &apos;s about knowing you can &apos;t just have alone . 
beam: It was about knowing that you didn &apos;t have alone . 

post: Đó là về hiểu những người xung quanh chúng ta theo những cách mới và sáng sủa .
response: It &apos;s about understanding our neighbors in new and enlightening ways .
infer: It &apos;s about understanding people that are around us in new ways , UNK . 
beam: It &apos;s about understanding people that are around us in new ways and UNK . 

post: Đó là về tạo ra không gian cho phản ánh và chiêm nghiệm , và nhớ rằng điều gì thực sự ý nghĩa nhất với chúng ta khi chúng ta trưởng thành và thay đổi .
response: It &apos;s about making space for reflection and contemplation , and remembering what really matters most to us as we grow and change .
infer: It &apos;s about creating spaces for UNK and experiencing , and remembering what &apos;s actually going to mean most of what makes us as we &apos;re growing apart and changing . 
beam: It &apos;s about creating the space UNK and the experience , and the remembering that what really matters with us when we grow and change . 

post: Tôi làm dự án này năm ngoái , và bắt đầu nhận được hàng trăm lá thư từ những người nhiệt thành những người muốn làm một bức tường ở cộng đồng của họ , vì vậy các đồng nghiệp dân cư trung tâm và tôi làm một công cụ , và bây giờ những bức tường đã đang được làm ở các đất nước trên thế giới , bao gồm Kazakhstan , Nam Phi , Úc , Ác-hen-ti-na và nhiều hơn nữa .
response: I made this last year , and started receiving hundreds of messages from passionate people who wanted to make a wall with their community , so my civic center colleagues and I made a tool kit , and now walls have been made in countries around the world , including Kazakhstan , South Africa , Australia , Argentina and beyond .
infer: And in the UNK , I &apos;m going to start taking a hundred letters out of UNK , and I &apos;m going to start taking up hundreds of letters from people who want to make a wall in their community , so the UNK colleagues and I &apos;m a tool
beam: So , I &apos;ve been working on this last year , and I started getting hundreds of letters from extremely UNK people who wanted to make a wall in their community , because the UNK were UNK , and now the walls were being made in countries in the world

post: Cùng nhau , chúng ta đã chỉ ra những không gian công cộng của chúng ta có sức mạnh đến thế nào có thể nếu chúng ta được cho cơ hội để có một tiếng nói và chia sẻ nhiều hơn với một người khác .
response: Together , we &apos;ve shown how powerful our public spaces can be if we &apos;re given the opportunity to have a voice and share more with one another .
infer: Together we &apos;ve shown out how far the public spaces are possible if we &apos;re given our opportunity to have a voice and share more with one another person . 
beam: Together , we &apos;ve shown out how far the public spaces are possible if we &apos;re given our opportunity to have a voice and share more with another human being . 

post: Hai điều quan trọng nhất chúng ta có là thời gian và mối quan hệ với những người khác .
response: Two of the most valuable things we have are time and our relationships with other people .
infer: The most important things we have is time and relationships with others . 
beam: The most important things we have is time and relationships with others . 

post: Trong kỉ nguyên gia tăng sự phân tán của chúng ta , điều này còn quan trọng hơn bao giờ hết để tìm ra cách duy trì góc nhìn và nhớ rằng cuộc sống là ngắn ngủi và mềm mại .
response: In our age of increasing distractions , it &apos;s more important than ever to find ways to maintain perspective and remember that life is brief and tender .
infer: In our most part of our UNK growth , it &apos;s also more important than ever to find a way to sustain a corner in a way that &apos;s a UNK between the one hand and remembering life is short and soft . 
beam: In our most part of our UNK growth , that &apos;s even more important than ever to find a way to look at the way and remembering life is short and soft . 

post: Cái chết là một cái gì đó chúng ta thường không được khuyến khích để nói đến hoặc thậm chí là nghĩ đến , nhưng tôi đã đang nhận ra rằng chuẩn bị cho cái chết là một trong những điều quyền lực nhất bạn có thể làm .
response: Death is something that we &apos;re often discouraged to talk about or even think about , but I &apos;ve realized that preparing for death is one of the most empowering things you can do .
infer: What &apos;s happening is something we &apos;re not so UNK to talk or even think , but I &apos;ve been realizing that the standard of the death is one of the most powerful things you can do . 
beam: What &apos;s happening is something we &apos;re not so UNK to talk or even think , but I &apos;ve been realizing that the UNK for death is one of the most powerful things you can do . 

post: Suy nghĩ về cái chết làm cuộc sống của bạn rõ ràng .
response: Thinking about death clarifies your life .
infer: Think of your life as clearly as your life is clear . 
beam: Think of your life as clearly . 

post: Những không gian được chia sẻ của chúng ta có thể tốt hơn được phản ánh về những điều xảy ra cho chúng ta như là những cá thể và như là một cộng đồng , và với nhiều cách hơn để chia sẻ hy vọng , nỗi sợ hãi và những câu chuyện , những người xung quanh chúng ta không chỉ có thể giúp chúng ta làm những nơi tốt đẹp hơn , họ có thể giúp chúng ta dẫn dắt cuộc sống tốt hơn .
response: Our shared spaces can better reflect what matters to us as individuals and as a community , and with more ways to share our hopes , fears and stories , the people around us can not only help us make better places , they can help us lead better lives .
infer: UNK and UNK to share our shared , our fears and our stories , they might not only get us to do better places , but they can help us lead our lives better . 
beam: UNK and UNK to share our shared , the fear and the stories , the people around us not only can make us make better places , but they can help us lead our lives better . 

post: Cảm ơn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Cảm ơn
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Vâng , tôi làm toán học ứng dụng và đây là một vấn đề khác thường cho bất cứ ai làm toán học ứng dụng , chính là chúng tôi giống như các nhà tư vấn quản lý .
response: So , well , I do applied math , and this is a peculiar problem for anyone who does applied math , is that we are like management consultants .
infer: Well , I &apos;m an app of application and this is a little bit that a little bit of a very different problem for anyone who makes an app for an education , and is us as UNK . 
beam: Well , I make an app math , and this is a very different problem for anyone who makes math on an app , it means that we are as UNK . 

post: Không ai biết chúng tôi làm cái quái gì .
response: No one knows what the hell we do .
infer: Nobody knows what we do . 
beam: Nobody knows what we do . 

post: Vì vậy , hôm nay tôi sẽ thử cố gắng giải thích cho bạn việc tôi làm .
response: So I am going to give you some -- attempt today to try and explain to you what I do .
infer: So today I &apos;m going to try and explain to you what I do . 
beam: So today I &apos;m going to try and explain to you what I do . 

post: Vâng , nhảy múa là một trong những hoạt động mà con người thường làm
response: So , dancing is one of the most human of activities .
infer: Well dancing is one of the actions that people do . 
beam: Well dancing is one of the activities that people do . 

post: Chúng ta yêu thích những vũ công bậc thầy về Ba Lê và Nhảy gõ chân bạn sẽ thấy sau đây .
response: We delight at ballet virtuosos and tap dancers you will see later on .
infer: We loved UNK dance dance , and then UNK the leg that you see here . 
beam: We loved UNK dance heroes of three UNK and UNK on the leg that you would see later . 

post: Múa ba lê đòi hỏi một trình độ chuyên môn đặc biệt và trình độ kỹ thuật cao và có thể mức độ phù hợp với bộ môn này có liên quan đến yếu tố di truyền .
response: Now , ballet requires an extraordinary level of expertise and a high level of skill , and probably a level of initial suitability that may well have a genetic component to it .
infer: UNK UNK requires a special UNK stage and advanced degree that &apos;s been able to scale that matches this kit that involves the genetic factor . 
beam: UNK UNK requires a special UNK stage and advanced degree that &apos;s been able to scale where the subject is relevant to the genetic element . 

post: Thật đáng buồn , rối loạn thần kinh như bệnh Parkinson dần dần phá huỷ khả năng đặc biệt này , như điều đang xảy đến cho bạn tôi Jan Stripling , người mà một thời , đã từng một nghệ sĩ ba lê bậc thầy .
response: Now , sadly , neurological disorders such as Parkinson &apos;s disease gradually destroy this extraordinary ability , as it is doing to my friend Jan Stripling , who was a virtuoso ballet dancer in his time .
infer: UNK , UNK disease disorder that UNK this particular possibility , of what &apos;s happening to my friend UNK UNK , who is also an UNK UNK artist . 
beam: UNK , UNK disease disorder that UNK this particular possibility , as what &apos;s happening to my friend UNK UNK , who is also an UNK UNK artist . 

post: Trong suốt những năm qua đã có sự tiến bộ to lớn trong quá trình điều trị .
response: So great progress and treatment has been made over the years .
infer: Over the past years have had a big UNK in the treatment . 
beam: For the past few years have had a big UNK in processes . 

post: Tuy nhiên , 6.3 triệu người trên toàn cầu mắc bệnh , và họ phải sống trong tình trạng suy nhược , run rẩy , xơ cứng vô phương chữa trị và các triệu chứng khác đi cùng với căn bệnh này . Những gì chúng ta cần là các công cụ cho mục tiêu rõ rệt để phát hiện ra bệnh trước khi quá muộn .
response: However , there are 6.3 million people worldwide who have the disease , and they have to live with incurable weakness , tremor , rigidity and the other symptoms that go along with the disease , so what we need are objective tools to detect the disease before it &apos;s too late .
infer: However , UNK million people have a disease , and they have to live in UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK , and all kinds of different evidence with this disease . And what we need is the tools for the clarity to detect the disease before the last
beam: However , UNK million people have UNK diseases , and they have to live in UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK , and all kinds of different evidence with this disease . And what we need is the tools for the clarity to detect the disease before the last

post: Chúng ta cần đo lường sự tiến triển một cách khách quan , và cuối cùng , cách duy nhất mà chúng ta biết khi chúng ta thực sự có một cách điều trị , là khi chúng ta có một phương pháp chính xác để có thể trả lời chắc chắn .
response: We need to be able to measure progression objectively , and ultimately , the only way we &apos;re going to know when we actually have a cure is when we have an objective measure that can answer that for sure .
infer: We need to measure progress , and ultimately , the only way we know when we actually get a solution , is that we have a precise UNK method so we can answer certain of our UNK . 
beam: We need to measure progress , and ultimately , the only way that we know when we actually have a treatment , is that when we have a precise behavioral method so we can answer . 

post: Nhưng thật nản lòng là với bệnh Parkinson và các chứng rối loạn vận động khác , chúng không có dấu ấn sinh học , vì vậy không có phương pháp xét nghiệm máu đơn giản nào mà bạn có thể làm , và cái tốt nhất mà chúng ta có là bài kiểm tra thần kinh này .
response: But frustratingly , with Parkinson &apos;s disease and other movement disorders , there are no biomarkers , so there &apos;s no simple blood test that you can do , and the best that we have is like this 20-minute neurologist test .
infer: But UNK is UNK and UNK UNK , so there &apos;s no UNK simple UNK that you can do , and the best part we have is this UNK test . 
beam: But UNK is UNK and UNK UNK , so there &apos;s no UNK simple UNK that you can do , and the best thing we have is this neural test . 

post: Bạn cần phải đến bệnh viện để làm điều đó . Nó rất rất tốn kém , có nghĩa là cuộc xét nghiệm này nằm ngoài các thử nghiệm lâm sàng , Nó chưa bao giờ được thực hiện .
response: You have to go to the clinic to do it . It &apos;s very , very costly , and that means that , outside the clinical trials , it &apos;s just never done . It &apos;s never done .
infer: You need to go to a hospital to do that . It &apos;s very costly , and that means that this is in UNK trials , which is never done . 
beam: You need to go to a hospital to do that . It &apos;s very costly , and that means that this is all in the clinical trials , which is never done . 

post: Nhưng nếu như nếu bệnh nhân có thể làm xét nghiệm này ở nhà thì sao ?
response: But what if patients could do this test at home ?
infer: But what if the patient could do this in their own research ? 
beam: But what if patient could take this look at home ? 

post: Điều đó sẽ thực sự miễn một chuyến đi đến phòng khám , và nếu bệnh nhân còn có thể tự làm xét nghiệm nữa , thì sao ?
response: Now , that would actually save on a difficult trip to the clinic , and what if patients could do that test themselves , right ?
infer: It &apos;ll really be free for a trip to the clinic , and if the patient can UNK itself , then what ? 
beam: It &apos;ll really be free for a trip to the clinic , and if the patient can UNK itself , why ? 

post: Không tốn thời giờ vàng bạc của nhân viên .
response: No expensive staff time required .
infer: It didn &apos;t cost the UNK UNK . 
beam: It didn &apos;t cost the men &apos;s UNK . 

post: Chỉ tất khoảng $ 300 mà thôi , Để làm xét nghiệm này tại phòng khám Bác Sỹ chuyên khoa thần kinh
response: Takes about $ 300 , by the way , in the neurologist &apos;s clinic to do it .
infer: That &apos;s about a UNK UNK , to UNK it in the UNK of UNK UNK . 
beam: That &apos;s about a long salary , for example , to take this test in the lab . 

post: Vì vậy , cái tôi muốn đề xuất cho bạn là một cách phi truyền thống qua đó ta có thể đạt được điều này , vì như bạn thấy , ít nhất theo một hướng nào đó , chúng ta đều là những bậc thầy như Jan Stripling bạn tôi .
response: So what I want to propose to you as an unconventional way in which we can try to achieve this , because , you see , in one sense , at least , we are all virtuosos like my friend Jan Stripling .
infer: So what I would propose for you is a UNK way over and over there we can achieve this , because as you can see , at least in a way , we are all UNK , UNK UNK friends . 
beam: So what I &apos;d like to suggest for you is a UNK way that we can achieve this , because as you can see , at least in a particular way , we are all UNK UNK . 

post: Ở đây chúng ta có một đoạn phim của các giây thanh quản đang rung
response: So here we have a video of the vibrating vocal folds .
infer: Here we have a video of the UNK UNK . 
beam: Here we have a video of UNK , UNK videos . 

post: giây thanh quản này khoẻ mạnh và ai đó đang nói , và chúng ta có thể xem mình như những vũ công ba lê thanh nhạc , bởi vì chúng ta phải phối hợp tất cả các cơ quan phát âm khi tạo ra âm thanh , và tất cả chúng ta thực sự có các gen để phụ trách điều đó . Ví dụ như FoxP2 .
response: Now , this is healthy and this is somebody making speech sounds , and we can think of ourselves as vocal ballet dancers , because we have to coordinate all of these vocal organs when we make sounds , and we all actually have the genes for it . FoxP2 , for example .
infer: This is UNK and someone &apos;s talking , and we can see ourselves as UNK , because we have to incorporate all of these UNK elements to produce sounds , and we can all make genes to do that . For example , UNK . 
beam: This UNK is strong and someone &apos;s talking , and we can see ourselves as UNK parents , because we have to UNK all of the UNK elements when we produce sounds , and we can all make genes to do that . For example , UNK . 

post: Giống như ba lê nó cần được đào tạo đặc biệt .
response: And like ballet , it takes an extraordinary level of training .
infer: It &apos;s like three UNK , and it has to be UNK . 
beam: It &apos;s like three UNK , and it requires a special training . 

post: Ý tôi là , thử nghĩ mất bao lâu để một đứa trẻ tập nói .
response: I mean , just think how long it takes a child to learn to speak .
infer: I mean , how long it took to take a little kid to do . 
beam: I mean , how long it took to take a little kid to do . 

post: Từ âm thanh , chúng ta thực sự có thể theo dấu vị trí dây thanh quản khi rung , Khi các chi bị ảnh hưởng bởi Parkinson , Các cơ quan âm thanh cũng bị thế
response: From the sound , we can actually track the vocal fold position as it vibrates , and just as the limbs are affected in Parkinson &apos;s , so too are the vocal organs .
infer: And we can actually follow the UNK UNK when you vibrate , when you &apos;re able to say , when you &apos;re able to go at the UNK , when you &apos;re able to say , when you &apos;re able to go at the UNK , you can actually follow
beam: So sound , we can actually follow the UNK UNK when shaking , when you &apos;re able to say , when you &apos;re able to say , when you &apos;re able to say , when you &apos;re able to put on your UNK , or when you &apos;re able to

post: Vậy nên ở đồ thị bên dưới , bạn có thể thấy một ví dụ về sự rung bất thường của dây thanh quản
response: So on the bottom trace , you can see an example of irregular vocal fold tremor .
infer: So in the lower diagram , you can see an example of the UNK UNK of the UNK cord . 
beam: So in the lower diagram , you can see an example of the UNK UNK of the UNK cord . 

post: Chúng ta thấy đều cùng triệu chứng .
response: We see all the same symptoms .
infer: We see all the same symptoms . 
beam: We see all the same symptoms . 

post: Chúng ta thấy giọng run , sự suy nhược và xơ cứng .
response: We see vocal tremor , weakness and rigidity .
infer: We see UNK , we see UNK and UNK . 
beam: We see UNK , UNK and UNK . 

post: Lời nói trở nên trầm lắng hơn và nhiều giọng gió hơn sau một thời gian , và đó là một trong các triệu chứng ví dụ về nó .
response: The speech actually becomes quieter and more breathy after a while , and that &apos;s one of the example symptoms of it .
infer: So speech comes more UNK , more UNK , a little more UNK , and that &apos;s one of the UNK symptoms of it . 
beam: The phrase should be more UNK , more than a long time , and that &apos;s one of the symptoms of this . 

post: Những hiệu ứng âm thanh này có thể thực sự khó phát hiện , trong một số trường hợp , nhưng với bất kỳ Micro kỹ thuật số nào , và sử dụng phần mềm phân tích giọng nói chuẩn xác kết hợp với kiến thức máy móc mới nhất , rất tân tiến hiện nay chúng ta có thể định lượng chính xác người nào đó nói dối chỗ nào trong hệ miền liên tục giữa sức khoẻ và bệnh tật chỉ bằng cách sử dụng tín hiệu giọng nói .
response: So these vocal effects can actually be quite subtle , in some cases , but with any digital microphone , and using precision voice analysis software in combination with the latest in machine learning , which is very advanced by now , we can now quantify exactly where somebody lies on a continuum between health and disease using voice signals alone .
infer: UNK like this , UNK , and UNK UNK UNK UNK , and they can UNK the right , and they can tell you how much it is to say in the UNK , UNK , UNK , way , we can tell the UNK , and the disease is
beam: The UNK effects that might be really UNK , in some cases , are very modern , and we &apos;re able to identify what people would say in their UNK that would have been able to lie to the UNK between the health and the disease just by using their

post: Vậy làm thế nào các bài thử nghiệm dựa trên giọng nói này so sánh ngang ngửa với thử nghiệm lâm sàng chuyên môn ? Cả hai đều không xâm hạm lẫn nhau .
response: So these voice-based tests , how do they stack up against expert clinical tests ? We &apos;ll , they &apos;re both non-invasive .
infer: So how do you do these trials , in your voice , these are equal UNK to clinical clinical trial ? They &apos;re both UNK . 
beam: So how do you do these trials on this voice that are based on this voice that are used to a clinical clinical trial ? They &apos;re both UNK . 

post: Thử nghiệm của thần kinh học không có tính xâm phạm . Chúng đều sử dụng cơ sở hạ tầng hiện có .
response: The neurologist &apos;s test is non-invasive . They both use existing infrastructure .
infer: The UNK of neuroscience doesn &apos;t have UNK . They all follow existing infrastructure . 
beam: The UNK of neuroscience doesn &apos;t have UNK . They all follow existing infrastructure . 

post: Bạn không cần phải thiết kế cả một hệ thống bệnh viện hoàn toàn mới để tiến hành thử nghiệm này
response: You don &apos;t have to design a whole new set of hospitals to do it .
infer: You don &apos;t necessarily have to design a new operating system to work on this experiment . 
beam: You don &apos;t necessarily have to design a new operating system to work on this experiment . 

post: Và cả hai đều chuẩn xác . Nhưng thêm một điều , thử nghiệm dựa trên giọng nói không có tính chuyên môn .
response: And they &apos;re both accurate . Okay , but in addition , voice-based tests are non-expert .
infer: And they &apos;re doing two right . But one thing , their research UNK is no UNK . 
beam: And they &apos;re going right . But one thing , test UNK speaking . 

post: Đó có nghĩa là nó có thể tự thực hiện được .
response: That means they can be self-administered .
infer: That means it can perform done . 
beam: That means it can perform done . 

post: Tốc độ nhanh , chỉ mất khoảng 30 giây tối đa .
response: They &apos;re high-speed , take about 30 seconds at most .
infer: UNK , it takes about 30 and a half . 
beam: UNK , it takes about 30 UNK . 

post: Chi phí cực thấp , và chúng ta đều biết điều gì sẽ xảy ra .
response: They &apos;re ultra-low cost , and we all know what happens .
infer: It &apos;s very low , and we know what happens . 
beam: It &apos;s very low , and we know what happens . 

post: Khi một cái gì đó trở nên cực rẻ , nó sẽ được phổ biến trên diện rộng
response: When something becomes ultra-low cost , it becomes massively scalable .
infer: When something is very UNK , it &apos;s popular in the field . 
beam: When something becomes very cheap , it &apos;ll be widely available . 

post: Vì vậy , đây là một số mục tiêu tuyệt vời mà tôi nghĩ rằng chúng tôi có thể làm bây giờ .
response: So here are some amazing goals that I think we can deal with now .
infer: So , this is some great target that I think we could do now . 
beam: So this is some of the great UNK that I think we can do now . 

post: Chúng tôi có thể làm giảm khó khăn hậu cần cho bệnh nhân .
response: We can reduce logistical difficulties with patients .
infer: We can reduce the UNK we need for the patient . 
beam: We can reduce the risk we need to do it down . 

post: Không cần phải đi đến phòng khám để kiểm tra định kì .
response: No need to go to the clinic for a routine checkup .
infer: It doesn &apos;t take to go to clinic to examine a UNK . 
beam: You don &apos;t need to go to clinic for a test . 

post: Chúng tôi có thể thực hiện sự quan sát với tần số cao để có được dữ liệu nhắm đến .
response: We can do high-frequency monitoring to get objective data .
infer: We can do the observation with frequency of the data to get the data down . 
beam: We can do it with frequency frequency to get the data over . 

post: Chúng tôi có thể thực hiện tuyển dụng nhân sự hàng loạt với chi phí thấp để thực hiện thử nghiệm lâm sàng , Việc thẩm định trên quy mô dân số là khả thi ngay trong lần đầu tiên này .
response: We can perform low-cost mass recruitment for clinical trials , and we can make population-scale screening feasible for the first time .
infer: We can work at a deal on a low cost of UNK , and a little lower trial for the population of the UNK of the population , UNK the population &apos;s UNK is possible to UNK this first time . 
beam: We can work at a deal on a very low cost of these clinical trials , so that UNK is the UNK of the population . 

post: Chúng tôi có cơ hội để bắt đầu tìm kiếm những dấu ấn sinh học ban đầu của căn bệnh trước khi nó quá muộn .
response: We have the opportunity to start to search for the early biomarkers of the disease before it &apos;s too late .
infer: We have the opportunity to start looking for the first UNK of the disease before it &apos;s too late . 
beam: We had the opportunity to start looking for the first UNK of the disease before it was too late . 

post: Vì vậy , để thực hiện các bước đầu tiên hướng tới việc này , chúng tôi đang đưa ra trương trình Khởi Đầu giọng nói Parkinson .
response: So , taking the first steps towards this today , we &apos;re launching the Parkinson &apos;s Voice Initiative .
infer: So , in order to get up to the first steps towards this , we &apos;re putting a show of UNK speaking into the fourth UNK voice . 
beam: So , in order to do the first steps into this work , we &apos;re putting UNK speaking UNK . 

post: Với Aculab và PatientsLikeMe , chúng tôi nhắm đến việc ghi âm lại giọng nói với một số lượng rất lớn trên toàn cầu để thu thập đủ dữ liệu và bắt đầu xử trí bốn mục tiêu .
response: With Aculab and PatientsLikeMe , we &apos;re aiming to record a very large number of voices worldwide to collect enough data to start to tackle these four goals .
infer: With UNK and UNK , we &apos;re bringing to record the voice to the global quantities of UNK UNK to collect data and to start adopting our four goals . 
beam: With UNK and UNK , what we &apos;re aiming at UNK sound response to a very large number of UNK UNK to collect data and begin to tackle their four targets . 

post: Chúng tôi có những cư dân địa phương có thể tiếp cận được với ba phần tư của một tỷ người trên hành tinh .
response: We have local numbers accessible to three quarters of a billion people on the planet .
infer: We have local people that are able to have access to three of the people &apos;s fourth friends on the planet . 
beam: We have local people able to have access to three-quarters of a billion people on the planet . 

post: Bất cứ ai khoẻ mạnh hoặc mắc bệnh Parkinson có thể gọi tới với giá rẻ , và để lại âm ghi , vài xu mỗi lần , và tôi thực sự vui mừng thông báo rằng chúng tôi đã đạt sáu phần trăm mục tiêu chỉ trong tám giờ .
response: Anyone healthy or with Parkinson &apos;s can call in , cheaply , and leave recordings , a few cents each , and I &apos;m really happy to announce that we &apos;ve already hit six percent of our target just in eight hours .
infer: Anyone who &apos;s healthy or obese can call a UNK , and to record , to UNK , a little coins , and I &apos;m really pleased that we &apos;re six percent of the headlines in eight hours . 
beam: Anyone who &apos;s UNK or can have call it for cheap price , and UNK it , a couple of coins per time , and I &apos;m really pleased to announce that we &apos;re six percent of goals for eight hours . 

post: Cảm ơn các bạn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Tom Rielly : Vậy Max , bằng cách lấy tất cả các mẫu cho là của 10.000 người đi , bạn có thể cho biết ai khoẻ mạnh và ai không ?
response: So Max , by taking all these samples of , let &apos;s say , 10,000 people , you &apos;ll be able to tell who &apos;s healthy and who &apos;s not ?
infer: Tom UNK : So , Max , by taking all the forms of 10,000 people , you might tell me who &apos;s healthy and who doesn &apos;t ? 
beam: Tom UNK : So Max , by taking all the forms of 10,000 people , can you tell who &apos;s healthy and who doesn &apos;t ? 

post: Bạn sẽ kết luận được gì từ những mẫu này ?
response: What are you going to get out of those samples ?
infer: What would you end from these models ? 
beam: What would you end from these models ? 

post: Max Little : vâng . Vâng . Điều sẽ xảy ra là , khi gọi bạn phải chỉ rõ bạn có bệnh hay không. phải .
response: Yeah . Yeah . So what will happen is that , during the call you have to indicate whether or not you have the disease or not , you see . Right .
infer: UNK said , yes . All right . Well , what happens is , if you call you a little bit sick or a UNK . 
beam: UNK said , yes . All right . Well , what happens is , if you call you a little bit sick or a UNK . 

post: Bạn thấy đó , một số người có thể không làm điều đó . Có thể họ không gọi tới được .
response: You see , some people may not do it . They may not get through it .
infer: You see , some people can &apos;t do that . Maybe they don &apos;t call it . 
beam: You see , some people can &apos;t do that . They can &apos;t call it . 

post: Nhưng chúng tôi sẽ lấy một lượng lớn mẫu dữ liệu thu thập được từ tất cả các trường hợp khác nhau , và kết quả có được trong trường hợp khác nhau mới là quan trọng bởi vì sau đó chúng tôi xem xét giải quyết các yếu tố trùng hợp , và tìm kiếm các dấu hiệu thực tế của căn bệnh này .
response: But we &apos;ll get a very large sample of data that is collected from all different circumstances , and it &apos;s getting it in different circumstances that matter because then we are looking at ironing out the confounding factors , and looking for the actual markers of the disease .
infer: But we &apos;ll get a huge amount of data stream from all of these different cases , and we &apos;ve looked at the solving for these factors , the UNK , and then we looked at the UNK of the UNK , and we looked for the actual UNK of
beam: But we &apos;re going to get a huge stream of data data from all of these different cases , and we &apos;ve looked at the idea of solving all the possible elements , and we &apos;re looking for the actual UNK of the disease . 

post: Vậy hiện tại độ chính xác là 86 phần trăm ?
response: So you &apos;re 86 percent accurate right now ?
infer: So , what is the exact UNK percent ? 
beam: So , what is the exact UNK percent ? 

post: Hơn mức đó nhiều chứ
response: It &apos;s much better than that .
infer: That &apos;s the UNK . 
beam: That &apos;s the UNK . 

post: Thực ra , sinh viên của tôi Thanasis , tôi phải khen ngợi anh ta , bởi vì anh ấy đã làm một số công việc tuyệt vời , anh ta đã chứng minh được rằng điều này còn có thể thực hiện được qua mạng điện thoại di động nữa , điều đó cho phép dự án này được thực hiện , và độ chính xác đang đạt đến 99 phần trăm .
response: Actually , my student Thanasis , I have to plug him , because he &apos;s done some fantastic work , and now he has proved that it works over the mobile telephone network as well , which enables this project , and we &apos;re getting 99 percent accuracy .
infer: In fact , my students UNK , and he has already managed to do that , if he &apos;s going to do this , he &apos;s already been able to do it over her mobile phone , which allows this to work , and the accuracy is reached 99 percent
beam: In fact , my student UNK , I have to UNK him , because he has shown that this can be done by mobile phone the mobile phone , which allows this to work , and the accuracy is reached 99 percent . 

post: Chín mươi chín . Vâng , một tiến bộ tớn .
response: Ninety-nine . Well , that &apos;s an improvement .
infer: UNK nine . Okay , one progressive improvement . 
beam: UNK nine . Okay , one progressive improvement . 

post: Vậy , điều đó có nghĩa là mọi người sẽ có thể — Mọi người có thể gọi từ điện thoại di động của họ và làm bài kiểm tra này , và những người có bệnh Parkinson có thể gọi , ghi âm giọng nói của họ , và sau đó bác sĩ có thể kiểm tra sự tiến triển của họ , xem tình trạng sức khoẻ của họ khi mang bệnh
response: So what that means is that people will be able to — People will be able to call in from their mobile phones and do this test , and people with Parkinson &apos;s could call in , record their voice , and then their doctor can check up on their progress , see where they &apos;re doing in this course of the disease .
infer: So , that means that people can -- people can call from their mobile phone and do this test , and they can take their voice to the UNK , and then doctors can test their development , see how their health care is given . 
beam: So , that means that people can -- people can call from their mobile phone and do this test , and they can UNK their voices , and then doctors can test their development , see how their health care is causing disease . 

post: Chính xác .
response: Absolutely .
infer: Exactly . 
beam: Exactly . 

post: Cảm ơn rất nhiều . Hoan Nghênh Max Little nào mọi người .
response: Thanks so much . Max Little , everybody .
infer: Thank you very much . UNK thousand pounds of UNK . 
beam: Thank you very much . UNK thousand pounds of UNK . 

post: Cảm ơn nhiều , Tom .
response: Thanks , Tom .
infer: Thank you , Tom . 
beam: Thank you , Tom . 

post: Tôi sống ở vùng Trung Nam .
response: I live in South Central .
infer: I live in the UNK . 
beam: I live in the UNK . 

post: Đây là vùng Trung Nam : cửa hàng rượu , đồ ăn nhanh , đất hoang .
response: This is South Central : liquor stores , fast food , vacant lots .
infer: This is the South region : UNK , fast , UNK food . 
beam: This is the South region : UNK , fast , UNK food . 

post: Vì vậy các nhà hoạch định thành phố họp lại với nhau và họ định thay cái tên Nam Trung để nó mang ý nghĩa khác . Vậy nên họ đổi thành vùng Nam Los Langeles , như thể việc đó sẽ giải quyết được những rắc rối đang thực sự diễn ra trong thành phố .
response: So the city planners , they get together and they figure they &apos;re going to change the name South Central to make it represent something else , so they change it to South Los Angeles , like this is going to fix what &apos;s really going wrong in the city .
infer: So UNK cities come together and they UNK the Chinese name so that it makes a difference , so they would turn into the South Angeles UNK , as if that would have UNK real problems actually going on in the city . 
beam: So UNK cities come together and they UNK the Chinese name , so they &apos;re going to change the Chinese name , so they &apos;re going to do that in the South Angeles UNK , as if it &apos;s going to solve the real problems that are actually going on

post: Đây là vùng Nam Los Angeles .
response: This is South Los Angeles .
infer: This is the South Angeles . 
beam: This is the South Los Angeles . 

post: Cửa hàng rượu , đồ ăn nhanh , đất hoang .
response: Liquor stores , fast food , vacant lots .
infer: UNK shops , food , UNK , land . 
beam: UNK shops , food , UNK . 

post: Cũng giống như 26.5 triệu người Mĩ khác , Tôi sống trong một sa mạc thức ăn. vùng Nam Trung Los Angeles , ngôi nhà của quầy phục vụ đồ ăn nhanh bên đường và gậy tai nạn rồi bỏ chạy .
response: Just like 26.5 million other Americans , I live in a food desert , South Central Los Angeles , home of the drive-thru and the drive-by .
infer: Just like UNK million Americans , I live in a UNK desert area , and the house of UNK food UNK UNK on the road and UNK and UNK . 
beam: Just like UNK million Americans , I live in a UNK desert area of UNK , the UNK house , and the floor of UNK UNK food on the streets of the UNK and UNK . 

post: Điều thú vị là đồ ăn nhanh bên đường đang giết chết nhiều người hơn gây tai nạn rồi bỏ chạy .
response: Funny thing is , the drive-thrus are killing more people than the drive-bys .
infer: Now , the interesting thing is that fast food UNK that are killing people more than running off the accident and UNK . 
beam: Now , what &apos;s interesting is that fast food UNK are killing more people than accidents . 

post: Ở Nam Trung Los Angeles , mọi người đang chết vì những căn bệnh có thể chữa được .
response: People are dying from curable diseases in South Central Los Angeles .
infer: In the South Angeles of Los Angeles , people are dying because of the disease that can fix him . 
beam: In the South Angeles Angeles , people are dying because of the UNK disease . 

post: Ví dụ , tỉ lệ béo phì ở vùng tôi ở cao gấp năm lần so với Beverly Hills chẳng hạn , nơi cách đó khoảng 16 km .
response: For instance , the obesity rate in my neighborhood is five times higher than , say , Beverly Hills , which is probably eight , 10 miles away .
infer: For example , UNK UNK in my local year is five kilometers from the house as Beverly , it was about 16 kilometers away . 
beam: For example , the UNK rate of UNK in that place of me is five kilometers from the house . 

post: Tôi phát chán khi phải chứng kiến điều này diễn ra .
response: I got tired of seeing this happening .
infer: I &apos;m bored with this thing happening . 
beam: I was bored to see this . 

post: Và tôi tự hỏi , bạn cảm thấy thế nào khi không có thực phẩm có lợi cho sức khoẻ , khi mỗi lần ra khỏi cửa bạn phải nhìn thấy những tác động xấu mà hệ thống thực phẩm hiện nay gây ra cho nơi mình sinh sống ?
response: And I was wondering , how would you feel if you had no access to healthy food , if every time you walk out your door you see the ill effects that the present food system has on your neighborhood ?
infer: And I wondered , what do you feel when there doesn &apos;t really cost for health , when you get out of your door you have to see the bad impact that the current world is causing place to live on ? 
beam: And I wondered , what do you feel when there is no food for health , when you come out of the door you have to see the bad impact that the processed system is made place alive ? 

post: Tôi nhìn thấy xe lăn được mua bán giống như xe cũ vậy .
response: I see wheelchairs bought and sold like used cars .
infer: I saw the wheelchair in the wheelchair was singing . 
beam: I saw a wheelchair that was bought as in the old place . 

post: Tôi thấy các trung tâm lọc máu mọc lên nhiều như Starbucks .
response: I see dialysis centers popping up like Starbucks .
infer: I see your blood UNK up as much as Starbucks . 
beam: I see your blood UNK up as much as Starbucks . 

post: Và tôi nhận ra rằng điều đó phải chấm dứt .
response: And I figured , this has to stop .
infer: And I realized that was to end . 
beam: And I realized that was to end . 

post: Tôi nhận ra rằng vấn đề chính là giải pháp .
response: So I figured that the problem is the solution .
infer: I realized that the issue is solutions . 
beam: Well , I realized that the problem was a solution . 

post: Thực phẩm là vấn đề và thực phẩm cũng là giải pháp .
response: Food is the problem and food is the solution .
infer: It &apos;s a problem , and food is also the solution . 
beam: So food is a problem , and food is also the solution . 

post: Với lại tôi cũng cảm thấy mệt mỏi với việc phải lái xe 45 phút chỉ để mua một quả táo không nhiễm thuộc trừ sâu .
response: Plus I got tired of driving 45 minutes round trip to get an apple that wasn &apos;t impregnated with pesticides .
infer: And I also feel UNK to UNK to UNK and buying an apple with no UNK . 
beam: Now , I &apos;m also UNK by having to try for 45 minutes to buy an apple UNK UNK . 

post: Điều mà tôi đã làm là trồng một rừng thực phẩm ở trước nhà .
response: So what I did , I planted a food forest in front of my house .
infer: What I did was I grow a food forest in front of the house . 
beam: What I did was I grow a food forest in front of the house . 

post: Nó nằm trên một dải đất mà chúng tôi gọi là đường đi dạo .
response: It was on a strip of land that we call a parkway .
infer: It &apos;s on a Earth that we call UNK Street . 
beam: It &apos;s on a planet that we call UNK Street . 

post: Nó rộng hơn 3m , dài 50m .
response: It &apos;s 150 feet by 10 feet .
infer: It &apos;s UNK . It &apos;s longer acres . 
beam: It &apos;s UNK . It &apos;s longer acres . 

post: Vấn đề là , mảnh đất đó thuộc về thành phố .
response: Thing is , it &apos;s owned by the city .
infer: The thing about this is , that land is UNK . 
beam: The thing is , the land is UNK . 

post: Nhưng bạn phải trông giữ nó .
response: But you have to maintain it .
infer: But you have to look blind . 
beam: But you have to look ahead of it . 

post: Nên tôi nghĩ : &quot; Tuyệt . Tôi có thể làm việc gì tôi muốn , bởi vì đó là trách nhiệm của tôi và tôi phải trông giữ nó . &quot;
response: So I &apos;m like , &quot; Cool . I can do whatever the hell I want , since it &apos;s my responsibility and I gotta maintain it . &quot;
infer: So I thought , &quot; Great . I can do what I want , because that &apos;s my responsibility and I need to embrace it . &quot; 
beam: So I thought , &quot; Great . I can do what I want , because that &apos;s my responsibility and I need to embrace it . &quot; 

post: Và đây là cách mà tôi trông giữ mảnh đất đó .
response: And this is how I decided to maintain it .
infer: And this is how I look at that land . 
beam: And this is how I look at that land . 

post: Tôi cùng với nhóm của tôi , Những mảnh đất xanh L.A. , chúng tôi tụ họp lại và bắt đầu trồng khu rừng thực phẩm : cây ăn quả , bạn biết đấy , cả chín loại rau quả .
response: So me and my group , L.A. Green Grounds , we got together and we started planting my food forest , fruit trees , you know , the whole nine , vegetables .
infer: I came together with my group , UNK &apos;s blue clubs , and we UNK and we UNK and we started to grow his food forests : trees , you know , nine UNK of vegetables . 
beam: I came together with my group , UNK of blue , and we UNK and we started to grow his food forests : UNK , you know , nine UNK of UNK . 

post: Chúng tôi là một nhóm lấy chia sẻ làm thù lao , gồm những người làm vườn từ nhiều cuộc đời khác nhau , từ mọi nơi trong thành phố , và họ hoàn toàn tự nguyện , và mọi thứ chúng tôi làm đều miễn phí .
response: What we do , we &apos;re a pay-it-forward kind of group , where it &apos;s composed of gardeners from all walks of life , from all over the city , and it &apos;s completely volunteer , and everything we do is free .
infer: We are a group of sharing UNK , which is about UNK people of various lives , from every place in the city , and they &apos;re fully UNK , and everything we &apos;re doing for free . 
beam: We are a group of sharing UNK , which UNK from many different lives , from all parts of the city , and they &apos;re fully UNK , and everything we &apos;re doing for free . 

post: Và mảnh vườn , nó rất đẹp .
response: And the garden , it was beautiful .
infer: And the garden , it &apos;s very beautiful . 
beam: And the garden , it &apos;s very beautiful . 

post: Rồi sau đó có người than phiền .
response: And then somebody complained .
infer: Then there was UNK . 
beam: Then there was UNK . 

post: Thành phố tới gặp tôi , và đại khái là đưa cho tôi một công văn , yêu cầu tôi phải phá bỏ mảnh vườn . Công văn đó sau này trở thành trát của toà .
response: The city came down on me , and basically gave me a citation saying that I had to remove my garden , which this citation was turning into a warrant .
infer: Cities came to me and said , a UNK , asked me to break the garden . This was the UNK from the site . 
beam: My city came to me , and it was about giving me a writer , asked me to break the garden . This was the UNK . 

post: Và tôi như thể : &quot; Thôi nào , thật à ? &quot;
response: And I &apos;m like , &quot; Come on , really ?
infer: And I was like , &quot; Come on , come ? 
beam: And I was like , &quot; Come on , really ? 

post: Một trát hầu toà vì trồng cây trên mảnh đất mà các người không thèm quan tâm sao ? &quot;
response: A warrant for planting food on a piece of land that you could care less about ? &quot;
infer: It &apos;s a UNK for UNK on the landscape that people who are not UNK ? &quot; 
beam: There &apos;s a growing UNK building in the landscape that people who are not UNK about ? &quot; 

post: Và tôi nói rằng : &quot; Được . Mang tới đây . &quot;
response: And I was like , &quot; Cool . Bring it . &quot;
infer: And I said , &quot; Yeah . Here we got here . &quot; 
beam: And I said , &quot; Yeah . Here we got here . &quot; 

post: Vì lần này thì chuyện này không tới đâu .
response: Because this time it wasn &apos;t coming up .
infer: So this is nowhere . 
beam: So this is nowhere . 

post: Rồi tờ L.A. Times nhận được tin , Steve Lopez viết một bài báo về nó , và bàn với uỷ viên hội đồng. rồi một trong các thành viên của Những mảnh đất xanh gửi một tờ đơn kiến nghị trên Change.org. và với 900 chữ ký , chúng tôi đã thành công .
response: So L.A. Times got ahold of it . Steve Lopez did a story on it and talked to the councilman , and one of the Green Grounds members , they put up a petition on Change.org , and with 900 signatures , we were a success .
infer: And the London Times got in , Steve UNK wrote a article about it , and he was a UNK article , and she was one of the members of the blue UNK sending up a UNK UNK UNK UNK , and with UNK UNK , we succeeded . 
beam: So , Steve UNK got out , Steve UNK wrote a article about it , and he said , &quot; UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK &quot; with UNK , we succeeded . 

post: Chúng tôi đã có được một chiến thắng trong tay .
response: We had a victory on our hands .
infer: We had a victory in our hand . 
beam: We had a victory in our hand . 

post: Uỷ viên hội đồng đó thậm chí còn gọi tới và nói rằng họ tán thành và thích việc mà chúng tôi đang làm .
response: My councilman even called in and said how they endorse and love what we &apos;re doing .
infer: The UNK community even came up and said that they were UNK and the kind of thing that we &apos;re doing . 
beam: The UNK community even came up and said that they adapted and the kind of thing that we &apos;re doing . 

post: Ý tôi là , thôi nào , tại sao lại không chứ ?
response: I mean , come on , why wouldn &apos;t they ?
infer: I mean , come on , why not ? 
beam: I mean , come on , why not ? 

post: L.A. dẫn đầu nước Mỹ về diện tích đất hoang mà thành phố sở hữu .
response: L.A. leads the United States in vacant lots that the city actually owns .
infer: The American UNK of America is the land , UNK area . 
beam: The first brain led in the land , across the city itself . 

post: Họ sở hữu 42 kilomet vuông đất bỏ hoang .
response: They own 26 square miles of vacant lots .
infer: They have UNK land UNK . 
beam: They have UNK land UNK . 

post: Tương đương với 20 lần Công viên trung tâm ,
response: That &apos;s 20 Central Parks .
infer: That &apos;s the equivalent of 20 UNK . 
beam: That &apos;s the equivalent of 20 UNK . 

post: đủ để trồng 725 triệu cây cà chua .
response: That &apos;s enough space to plant 725 million tomato plants .
infer: It &apos;s enough to grow UNK million UNK . 
beam: It &apos;s enough to grow UNK million UNK . 

post: Làm sao họ có thể không đồng tình chứ ?
response: Why in the hell would they not okay this ?
infer: How do they not agree ? 
beam: How do they not agree ? 

post: Trồng một cây sẽ cho bạn 1.000 , 10.000 hạt giống .
response: Growing one plant will give you 1,000 , 10,000 seeds .
infer: UNK a tree for you 1,000 , 10,000 seeds . 
beam: UNK a tree for you 1,000 , 10,000 seeds . 

post: Khi lượng đậu xanh có giá 1 đô la sẽ cho bạn lượng sản phẩm tương đương với 75 đô la .
response: When one dollar &apos;s worth of green beans will give you 75 dollars &apos; worth of produce .
infer: When the amount of UNK cost per dollar would have given you equal products of products for about 75 dollars . 
beam: When the amount of UNK cost per dollar would give you $ UNK in UNK . 

post: Đó là Đức tin của tôi , khi tôi nói với mọi người , hãy tự trồng lấy thực phẩm cho mình .
response: It &apos;s my gospel , when I &apos;m telling people , grow your own food .
infer: So that &apos;s my faith , when I say to everyone , go for UNK myself . 
beam: So this was my faith , when I told everyone , just UNK myself . 

post: Trồng thực phẩm cho mình cũng giống tự in tiền vậy .
response: Growing your own food is like printing your own money .
infer: UNK works in UNK , you know . 
beam: UNK foods themselves UNK . 

post: Tôi có di sản ở vùng Nam Trung .
response: See , I have a legacy in South Central .
infer: I was in part of the South Pole . 
beam: I was in part of the South Pole . 

post: Tôi lớn lên ở đó . Tôi nuôi dạy các con trai mình ở đó .
response: I grew up there . I raised my sons there .
infer: I grew up there . I raised my son there . 
beam: I grew up there . I raised my son there . 

post: Và tôi từ chối làm một phần của cái thực tại được tạo ra này , mà được tạo ra cho tôi bởi một số người khác . Và tôi đang tự tạo ra thực tại cho mình .
response: And I refuse to be a part of this manufactured reality that was manufactured for me by some other people , and I &apos;m manufacturing my own reality .
infer: And I refused to make part of this very UNK thing that was created by some other people , and I was making myself out of the world . 
beam: And I refused to make part of the reality that &apos;s made me by some other people , and I &apos;m actually making myself out of the world . 

post: Tôi là một nghệ sĩ .
response: See , I &apos;m an artist .
infer: I &apos;m an artist . 
beam: I &apos;m an artist . 

post: Làm vườn là nghệ thuật của tôi . Tôi trồng ra tác phẩm của mình .
response: Gardening is my graffiti . I grow my art .
infer: It &apos;s about my art . I grew my work . 
beam: It &apos;s about my art . I grew my work . 

post: Cũng giống như một hoạ sĩ , người tô điểm cho các bức tường , Tôi , tôi tô điểm cho những bãi cỏ , lối đi dạo .
response: Just like a graffiti artist , where they beautify walls , me , I beautiful lawns , parkways .
infer: Just as like an artist , people UNK walls , I also UNK the UNK and walk for a walk . 
beam: Just like an artist , the UNK for the walls , I UNK the UNK and walk for a walk . 

post: Tôi sử dụng mảnh vườn , đất trồng như một tấm vải , và cây trồng và cây xanh là những gì tôi tô điểm cho tấm vải đó .
response: I use the garden , the soil , like it &apos;s a piece of cloth , and the plants and the trees , that &apos;s my embellishment for that cloth .
infer: I use it , I use it , I use the garden , I &apos;m growing the garden as a canvas , and the UNK plant , and the blue plant is what I UNK with that canvas . 
beam: I use the garden , I use a UNK , like a canvas , and a UNK plant , and the blue plant is what I get for that canvas . 

post: Bạn sẽ bất ngờ với những gì mà mảnh đất có thể làm nếu bạn biến chúng thành vải bố .
response: You &apos;d be surprised what the soil could do if you let it be your canvas .
infer: You &apos;re going to miss everything the soil could do if you make them a UNK . 
beam: You &apos;re going to be surprised what the soil can do if you make them UNK . 

post: Bạn không thể tưởng tượng được hoa hướng dương tuyệt vời như thế nào và chúng ảnh hưởng tới mọi người ra sao .
response: You just couldn &apos;t imagine how amazing a sunflower is and how it affects people .
infer: You can &apos;t imagine the UNK of the dead potentially , and how they affect people . 
beam: You can &apos;t imagine how a UNK looks like and how they affect people . 

post: Vậy điều gì đã xảy ra ?
response: So what happened ?
infer: So what happened ? 
beam: So what happened ? 

post: Tôi đã chứng kiến mảnh vườn của mình trở thành một công cụ giáo dục , một công cụ cho sự chuyển đổi của vùng đất tôi sống .
response: I have witnessed my garden become a tool for the education , a tool for the transformation of my neighborhood .
infer: I saw my own piece of mine as a UNK tool , a tool for the transformational of my country . 
beam: I saw my own piece of mine as a UNK tool , a tool for the transformation of my country . 

post: Để thay đổi cộng đồng , bạn phải thay đổi thành phần của đất .
response: To change the community , you have to change the composition of the soil .
infer: To change the community , you have to change the part of the land . 
beam: To change the community , you have to change the part of the land . 

post: Chúng ta là đất .
response: We are the soil .
infer: We are ground . 
beam: We are ground . 

post: Bạn sẽ ngạc nhiên khi thấy cách mà những đứa trẻ bị ảnh hưởng .
response: You &apos;d be surprised how kids are affected by this .
infer: You might be surprised how young babies are affected . 
beam: You might be surprised how young children affected . 

post: Làm vườn là công việc có tính trị liệu nhất và thách thức nhất mà bạn có thể làm , đặc biệt là ở trong nội thành .
response: Gardening is the most therapeutic and defiant act you can do , especially in the inner city .
infer: It &apos;s a UNK , UNK business , the one that you can do , particularly in the inner content . 
beam: How UNK is the most valuable job , the most challenging thing you can do , particularly in the content . 

post: Với lại , bạn còn thu được dâu nữa .
response: Plus you get strawberries .
infer: In again , you get UNK . 
beam: In again , you get UNK . 

post: Tôi nhớ có một lần , có một người mẹ và con gái tới , lúc đó là khoảng 10 : 30 tối và họ ở trong vườn của tôi. rồi tôi đi ra ngoài và họ rất xấu hổ .
response: I remember this time , there was this mother and a daughter came , it was , like , 10 : 30 at night , and they were in my yard , and I came out and they looked so ashamed .
infer: I remember once , there was a mother and a girl came , and there was about 10 : 30 p.m. and they were in the garden in my garden and I went out and they were very ugly . 
beam: I remember once , there was a mother , a mother and a girl came , and it was about 10 : 30 p.m. and they were in in my garden and I went out and they were very ugly . 

post: Tôi nghĩ , trời ạ , tôi cảm thấy rất tệ vì họ ở đó. và tôi nói với họ rằng , hai người biết đấy , không cần phải làm như vậy .
response: So I &apos;m like , man , it made me feel bad that they were there , and I told them , you know , you don &apos;t have to do this like this .
infer: I thought , my goodness , I felt bad because they were there , and I said to them , I don &apos;t really have to do it . 
beam: I thought , UNK , I feel very bad because they &apos;re there , and I &apos;m telling them , you know , there &apos;s no need to do . 

post: Mảnh vườn này nằm trên đường là có lí do của nó .
response: This is on the street for a reason .
infer: This list is actually the main word of it . 
beam: This list is actually in the street . 

post: Tôi cảm thấy xấu hổ khi nhìn thấy có người ở gần tôi đến vậy mà vẫn bị đói . Và việc đó chỉ càng củng cố thêm lý do để tôi làm việc này . Mọi người hỏi tôi : &quot; Fin , anh không sợ là người ta sẽ ăn trộm thực phẩm của anh sao ? &quot;
response: It made me feel ashamed to see people that were this close to me that were hungry , and this only reinforced why I do this , and people asked me , &quot; Fin , aren &apos;t you afraid people are going to steal your food ? &quot;
infer: I &apos;m so embarrassed to see that there &apos;s people in the room who I &apos;m still getting to be hungry , and that &apos;s a more UNK thing to do this . People ask me , &quot; UNK , wouldn &apos;t you be afraid that people are going to
beam: I &apos;m so embarrassed to see that there &apos;s people in the room who I &apos;m still being hungry at , and that &apos;s only UNK the reason for me to do it . People ask me , &quot; UNK , wouldn &apos;t you be afraid that people will steal

post: Tôi trả lời , &quot; Tất nhiên là không , tôi không sợ họ sẽ ăn trộm .
response: And I &apos;m like , &quot; Hell no , I ain &apos;t afraid they &apos;re gonna steal it .
infer: And I said , &quot; Of course not , I &apos;m not afraid of what they &apos;re going to steal . 
beam: And I said , &quot; Of course not , I &apos;m not afraid that they &apos;re going to steal . 

post: Vì thế nên chúng mới ở trên đường .
response: That &apos;s why it &apos;s on the street .
infer: So they &apos;re on the road . 
beam: So they &apos;re on the road . 

post: Toàn bộ ý tưởng là thế mà .
response: That &apos;s the whole idea .
infer: This whole idea is that . 
beam: That &apos;s the whole idea . 

post: Tôi muốn họ lấy chúng , nhưng cùng lúc đó , Tôi muốn họ có lại được sức khoẻ của mình . &quot;
response: I want them to take it , but at the same time , I want them to take back their health . &quot;
infer: I want them to get them , but at the same time , I want them to get my health again . &quot; 
beam: I want them to take them , but at the same time , I want them to get my health again . &quot; 

post: Có một lần khác khi tôi làm vườn tại một khu vô gia cư ở trung tâm Los Angeles .
response: There &apos;s another time when I put a garden in this homeless shelter in downtown Los Angeles .
infer: Another other time I was making a garden at a homeless UNK in Los Angeles . 
beam: The other time I was working on a homeless zone in Los Angeles . 

post: Có mấy người đàn ông , họ giúp tôi dỡ đồ từ xe tải .
response: These are the guys , they helped me unload the truck .
infer: There were men , and they helped me to bring me down from the van . 
beam: These men , they kept me UNK from trucks . 

post: Không khí rất vui vẻ , và họ chia sẻ những câu chuyện về việc mảnh vườn đã ảnh hưởng tới họ và họ đã từng trồng rau với mẹ , với bà trước kia. và thật tuyệt khi thấy ý tưởng này đã thay đổi họ , dù chỉ là trong một giây phút đó .
response: It was cool , and they just shared the stories about how this affected them and how they used to plant with their mother and their grandmother , and it was just cool to see how this changed them , if it was only for that one moment .
infer: UNK was very happy , and they were sharing stories about the UNK UNK that their UNK had had them , and they had grown up with her mother , with her before , and it was great to see that this idea was going to change them , even
beam: It was very happy , and they share their stories about how UNK did it , and they had grown up with her mother , with her before , and it was great to see that this idea was going to change them , even on one UNK minute .

post: Vì vậy Những mảnh đất xanh đã tiếp tục trồng khoảng 20 mảnh vườn .
response: So Green Grounds has gone on to plant maybe 20 gardens .
infer: So those blue land have gone to grow about 20 UNK . 
beam: So the blue sheets continued to grow about 20 UNK . 

post: Chúng tôi đã có khoảng 50 người tới tham gia đào bới , và tất cả đều là tự nguyện .
response: We &apos;ve had , like , 50 people come to our dig-ins and participate , and it &apos;s all volunteers .
infer: We had about 50 people in the UNK , and everyone was voluntary . 
beam: We had about 50 people participated in UNK , and everyone was voluntary . 

post: Nếu bọn trẻ trồng cải xoăn , chúng sẽ ăn cải xoăn .
response: If kids grow kale , kids eat kale .
infer: If they grow UNK , they &apos;ll UNK . 
beam: If the kids growing UNK , they eat UNK . 

post: Nếu chúng trồng cà chua , chúng sẽ ăn cà chua .
response: If they grow tomatoes , they eat tomatoes .
infer: If they planted a pot , they &apos;ll eat a lot of a carrot . 
beam: If they plant UNK , they eat UNK . 

post: Nhưng nếu không ai cho chúng thấy việc đó , nếu chúng không được thấy những ảnh hưởng của thực phẩm tới trí não và cơ thể , chúng mù quáng sẽ ăn bất cứ cái gì được đặt trước mặt .
response: But when none of this is presented to them , if they &apos;re not shown how food affects the mind and the body , they blindly eat whatever the hell you put in front of them .
infer: But if you don &apos;t see it , if they &apos;re not seen the UNK effects of their minds , their bodies are blind to eat anything in front of their face . 
beam: But if you don &apos;t see it , if they &apos;re not seen the UNK effects of their minds , their bodies are blind to eat anything in front of their face . 

post: Tôi thấy những người trẻ tuổi muốn được làm việc , nhưng họ lại bị vướng bận chuyện gì đó ... Tôi thấy những đứa trẻ đầy màu sắc và chúng chỉ đi theo con đường đã được định sẵn , mà không dẫn tới đâu .
response: I see young people and they want to work , but they &apos;re in this thing where they &apos;re caught up -- I see kids of color and they &apos;re just on this track that &apos;s designed for them , that leads them to nowhere .
infer: I saw young people who wanted to be working , but they were in a sense of a UNK and they just follow the way that the path was driven , which was not going to lead . 
beam: I saw young people who wanted to be able to work , but they were in a sense of a UNK and they just follow the way that the way was driven , which is not going to lead . 

post: Với làm vườn , tôi nhìn thấy một cơ hội mà ta có thể hướng dẫn bọn trẻ gánh vác cộng đồng của chúng , và có một cuộc sống bền vững .
response: So with gardening , I see an opportunity where we can train these kids to take over their communities , to have a sustainable life .
infer: With a garden , I saw a chance for which we could lead the kids to UNK their own community , and there was a sustainability that is very sustainable . 
beam: With the garden , I saw a chance for which we could lead the kids to UNK their own community , and there was a sustainability of sustainability . 

post: Và khi chúng ta làm việc đó , ai mà biết được ?
response: And when we do this , who knows ?
infer: And when we do that , who knows ? 
beam: And when we do that , who knows ? 

post: Có thể ta sẽ sản sinh ra George Washington Carver tiếp theo .
response: We might produce the next George Washington Carver .
infer: We can produce George Washington next to us . 
beam: Maybe we &apos;re going to produce George Washington next . 

post: nhưng nếu ta không thay đổi thành phần của đất , ta sẽ không bao giờ làm được việc đó .
response: but if we don &apos;t change the composition of the soil , we will never do this .
infer: But if we don &apos;t change the rest of the land , you will never do that . 
beam: But if we don &apos;t change the rest of the land , you will never do that . 

post: Đây là một trong những kế hoạch của tôi . Đây là điều mà tôi muốn làm .
response: Now this is one of my plans . This is what I want to do .
infer: This is one of my projects . This is what I want to do . 
beam: This is one of my projects . This is what I want to do . 

post: Tôi muốn trồng cả một mảnh vườn mà ở đó mọi người có thể chia sẻ đồ ăn .
response: I want to plant a whole block of gardens where people can share in the food in the same block .
infer: I wanted to grow a whole piece of garden where people would share their food . 
beam: I want to grow a whole piece of garden where people can share their food . 

post: Tôi muốn lấy đi các công-ten-nơ chở hàng và biến chúng thành quán cà phê có lợi cho sức khoẻ .
response: I want to take shipping containers and turn them into healthy cafes .
infer: I want to take the UNK and turn them into a UNK that &apos;s healthy for health . 
beam: I would like to take the UNK and turn it into a UNK cafe . 

post: Đừng hiểu lầm tôi .
response: Now don &apos;t get me wrong .
infer: Don &apos;t get me wrong . 
beam: Don &apos;t get me wrong . 

post: Tôi không nói về những thứ miễn phí , bởi miễn phí thì không bền vững .
response: I &apos;m not talking about no free shit , because free is not sustainable .
infer: I &apos;m not talking about the free stuff , because free is free . 
beam: I &apos;m not talking about free things , because free is not sustainable . 

post: Điều thú vị về sự bền vững , đó là bạn phải duy trì nó .
response: The funny thing about sustainability , you have to sustain it .
infer: The interesting thing about sustainability , it &apos;s you have to UNK it . 
beam: The really exciting thing about sustainability is that you have to UNK it . 

post: Tôi đang nói về việc giao công việc cho mọi người , và kéo bọn trẻ ra khỏi phố , và cho chúng biết niềm vui , niềm tự hào và niềm vinh dự khi tự trồng thực phẩm cho mình , mở chợ cho nông dân .
response: What I &apos;m talking about is putting people to work , and getting kids off the street , and letting them know the joy , the pride and the honor in growing your own food , opening farmer &apos;s markets .
infer: I &apos;m talking about UNK work , and pulling kids out of the street , and giving them a sense of joy , joy and pleasure for UNK , for farmers . 
beam: I &apos;m talking about UNK work for people , and pulling them kids out of the street , and giving them a sense of joy , joy and pleasure for UNK , for farmers . 

post: Những gì mà tôi muốn làm ở đây , ta sẽ làm cho chuyện đó thật gợi cảm .
response: So what I want to do here , we gotta make this sexy .
infer: So , what I &apos;m going to do here , we &apos;re going to make that happen very sexy . 
beam: So what I &apos;m going to do here , we &apos;re going to make that happen sexy . 

post: Tôi muốn tất cả chúng ta trở thành những kẻ nổi loạn xanh hoá , những thợ làm vườn găngxtơ .
response: So I want us all to become ecolutionary renegades , gangstas , gangsta gardeners .
infer: I want us all to be UNK , UNK artists . 
beam: I want us all to be UNK , UNK artists . 

post: Ta sẽ thay đổi khái niệm về găngxtơ .
response: We gotta flip the script on what a gangsta is .
infer: We &apos;ll change the concept of UNK . 
beam: We &apos;ll change the concept of UNK . 

post: Nếu bạn không phải là thợ làm vườn thì bạn không phải găngxtơ .
response: If you ain &apos;t a gardener , you ain &apos;t gangsta .
infer: If you &apos;re not a UNK , you &apos;re not UNK . 
beam: If you &apos;re not UNK , you &apos;re not UNK . 

post: Làm găngxtơ cùng với cái xẻng của bạn , được chứ ?
response: Get gangsta with your shovel , okay ?
infer: Do you hold your UNK back with your UNK , right ? 
beam: UNK with your UNK hat , OK ? 

post: Và hãy biến nó thành vũ khí bạn chọn .
response: And let that be your weapon of choice .
infer: And let &apos;s turn it into the weapon of the air . 
beam: And let &apos;s turn it into the weapon . 

post: Căn bản là , nếu bạn muốn gặp tôi , bạn biết đấy , nếu bạn muốn gặp , đừng gọi tôi nếu bạn muốn ngồi không trên những chiếc ghế êm ái và tham gia những cuộc họp nơi bạn nói về làm này làm nọ nơi bạn nói về làm này làm nọ vớ vẩn .
response: So basically , if you want to meet with me , you know , if you want to meet , don &apos;t call me if you want to sit around in cushy chairs and have meetings where you talk about doing some shit -- where you talk about doing some shit .
infer: And it basically , if you want to meet me , if you want to meet me , you don &apos;t call me if you want to meet me on UNK and sit on some gathering sessions you talk about doing the one thing that you &apos;re talking about --
beam: So basically , if you want to meet me , if you want to meet me , don &apos;t call me if you want to meet me , you &apos;re not going to call me , and you &apos;re going to talk about gathering meetings where you &apos;re talking about

post: Nếu bạn muốn gặp tôi , hãy ra vườn cùng với chiếc xẻng của bạn và ta sẽ trồng vài thứ .
response: If you want to meet with me , come to the garden with your shovel so we can plant some shit .
infer: If you want to see me , you have to start with your UNK and say to plant things . 
beam: If you want to see me , the deck of the UNK with your UNK and are going to plant things . 

post: Chào . Xin cảm ơn .
response: Peace . Thank you .
infer: Hi . Thank you . 
beam: Hi . Thank you . 

post: Cảm ơn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Đây là nơi tôi sống . Tôi sống ở Kenya phía nam Công viên Quốc gia Nairobi .
response: This is where I live . I live in Kenya , at the south parts of the Nairobi National Park .
infer: This is where I lived . I live in Kenya in the Southern UNK UNK Service . 
beam: This is where I lived . I live in Kenya with the National UNK UNK . 

post: Phía sau tôi là đàn bò của bố tôi , và phía sau đàn bò , là Công viên Quốc gia Nairobi .
response: Those are my dad &apos;s cows at the back , and behind the cows , that &apos;s the Nairobi National Park .
infer: Behind I am the UNK of my father , and behind the cow , is the UNK UNK . 
beam: Behind I am the UNK of my father , and behind the cow , is UNK Park . 

post: Công viên Quốc gia Nairobi không được rào chắn trên diện rộng ở khu vực phía Nam , điều đó có nghĩa là các động vật hoang dã như ngựa vằn thoát ra khỏi công viên một cách tự do .
response: Nairobi National Park is not fenced in the south widely , which means wild animals like zebras migrate out of the park freely .
infer: The UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK in southern areas , which means wildlife animals like the UNK UNK out of their UNK . 
beam: The UNK have not had an UNK barrier in the area in the South area , which means wildlife UNK like the UNK UNK out of their UNK . 

post: Và vì thế các động vật ăn thịt như sư tử theo sau chúng , và đây là điều những con sư tử đó làm
response: So predators like lions follow them , and this is what they do .
infer: And so animals ate like lions followed them , and here &apos;s what the lion UNK do . 
beam: And so animals ate like lions followed them , and this is what the lion UNK do . 

post: Chúng giết gia súc của chúng tôi .
response: They kill our livestock .
infer: They killed livestock . 
beam: They killed livestock . 

post: Đây là một trong số những con bò đã bị giết vào buổi tối , và khi thức dậy vào buổi sáng tôi tìm thấy nó đã chết , và tôi đã cảm thấy rất buồn , bởi vì đó là con bò đực duy nhất mà chúng tôi có .
response: This is one of the cows which was killed at night , and I just woke up in the morning and I found it dead , and I felt so bad , because it was the only bull we had .
infer: This is one of the UNK that was killed in the evening , and when I woke up the morning , I found it dead , and I was so sad , because that &apos;s the only UNK we had . 
beam: This is one of the UNK that was killed in the evening , and when I woke up in the morning , I found it dead , and I felt so sad , because it was the only UNK we had . 

post: Cộng đồng của tôi , người Maasai , tin rằng chúng tôi đến từ thiên đường cùng với tất cả các con vật của mình và tất cả đất đai để chăn giữ chúng , đó là lý do vì sao chúng tôi rất coi trọng chúng
response: My community , the Maasai , we believe that we came from heaven with all our animals and all the land for herding them , and that &apos;s why we value them so much .
infer: My community , UNK , believe that we come from the UNK of all our animals and all the land to UNK ourselves , and that &apos;s why we are so much after that . 
beam: My community , UNK , believe that we have come from the track of all animals and all the land to UNK them , and that &apos;s why we are so much after that . 

post: Vì thế tôi lớn lên với sự thù ghét sư tử .
response: So I grew up hating lions so much .
infer: So I grew up with UNK . 
beam: So I grew up with UNK . 

post: Các chiến binh Masai người bảo vệ cộng đồng chúng tôi và gia súc , cũng rất lo ngại về vấn đề này
response: The morans are the warriors who protect our community and the livestock , and they &apos;re also upset about this problem .
infer: The UNK UNK protect our colleagues and cattle , they are very worried about this . 
beam: The UNK UNK protect our UNK and cattle , they are very worried about this . 

post: Vì thế họ giết sư tử .
response: So they kill the lions .
infer: So they killed lions . 
beam: So they killed lions . 

post: Đây là một trong sáu con sư tử đã bị giết ở Nairobi .
response: It &apos;s one of the six lions which were killed in Nairobi .
infer: This is one of the six lion that has been killed in Nairobi . 
beam: This is one of the six lion that has been killed in Nairobi . 

post: Và tôi nghĩ đây là lý do mà sư tử ở Công viên Quốc gia Nairobi còn rất ít .
response: And I think this is why the Nairobi National Park lions are few .
infer: And I think this is why the lion is a little bit off . 
beam: And I think this is why the lion is a little bit off . 

post: Mỗi đứa con trai từ 6 đến 9 tuổi , trong cộng đồng của tôi , chịu trách nhiệm chăn giữ những con bò của bố mình , và tôi cũng phải làm điều tương tự .
response: So a boy , from six to nine years old , in my community is responsible for his dad &apos;s cows , and that &apos;s the same thing which happened to me .
infer: Every son boy from 6 to nine years old , in my community , was responsible to keep the UNK to the UNK to my father , and I had to do the same thing . 
beam: Every son came from six to nine years old , in my community , was responsible to keep the UNK of my father , and I had to do the same thing . 

post: Vì thế tôi phải tìm ra cách để giải quyết vấn đề này .
response: So I had to find a way of solving this problem .
infer: So I have to figure out how to fix this problem . 
beam: So I have to figure out how to fix this problem . 

post: Ý tưởng đầu tiên mà tôi có được là sử dụng lửa , bởi vì tôi nghĩ sư tử sợ lửa .
response: And the first idea I got was to use fire , because I thought lions were scared of fire .
infer: The first idea that I got was using fire , because I thought UNK was UNK . 
beam: The first idea that I got was using fire , because I thought UNK was UNK . 

post: Nhưng sau đó tôi nhận ra rằng lửa không thực sự có tác dụng , bởi vì nó thậm chí còn giúp cho sư tử nhìn thấy chuồng bò .
response: But I came to realize that that didn &apos;t really help , because it was even helping the lions to see through the cowshed .
infer: But then I realized that fire didn &apos;t actually work , because it was even going to work on the lion UNK . 
beam: But then I realized that UNK weren &apos;t really helpful , because it was even helped him to see UNK . 

post: Nhưng tôi không từ bỏ . Tôi tiếp tục suy nghĩ .
response: So I didn &apos;t give up . I continued .
infer: But I didn &apos;t give up . I kept thinking . 
beam: But I didn &apos;t give up . I kept thinking . 

post: Và ý tưởng thứ hai của tôi đó là sử dụng bù nhìn .
response: And a second idea I got was to use a scarecrow .
infer: And the second idea that I have is that UNK . 
beam: And the second idea that I did was that using UNK . 

post: Tôi đã cố gắng đánh lừa những con sư tử đó &#91; vào cái suy nghĩ &#93; là tôi đứng gần chuồng bò .
response: I was trying to trick the lions &#91; into thinking &#93; that I was standing near the cowshed .
infer: I tried to UNK the lion of the molecule that was thought I was kind of UNK UNK . 
beam: I tried to obey the lion of the molecule instead of the thought I &apos;d been living near the UNK . 

post: Nhưng sư tử rất thông minh .
response: But lions are very clever .
infer: But the lions are very clever . 
beam: But smart lions are smart . 

post: Chúng tới ngày đầu tiên và nhìn thấy con bù nhìn , và rồi chúng quay về , nhưng ngày thứ 2 , chúng đến và nói rằng thứ này không hề chuyển động , nó luôn luôn chỉ ở đó .
response: They will come the first day and they see the scarecrow , and they go back , but the second day , they &apos;ll come and they say , this thing is not moving here , it &apos;s always here .
infer: And they come for the first day and see the UNK , and they &apos;re turned around , but the second day , they come up and say that this is not UNK , it &apos;s always there . 
beam: They come for the first day and they see the UNK , and they come back , but the second day , they come up and say that this is not UNK , it &apos;s always there . 

post: Và rồi sư tử nhảy vào và giết gia súc .
response: So he jumps in and kills the animals .
infer: And then the lion was dancing and killed UNK . 
beam: And then he jumped in and killed it . 

post: Vì thế vào một đêm , tôi cầm một cây đuốc đi xung quanh chuồng bò , vào hôm đó , những con sư tử ấy không đến .
response: So one night , I was walking around the cowshed with a torch , and that day , the lions didn &apos;t come .
infer: So one night , I took a UNK and walked around the UNK , and on that day , the UNK didn &apos;t come . 
beam: So one night , I took a UNK out around the UNK , and on that day , the UNK didn &apos;t come . 

post: Tôi khám phá ra rằng sư tử sợ ánh sáng chuyển động .
response: And I discovered that lions are afraid of a moving light .
infer: I discovered that UNK spells UNK . 
beam: I discovered that UNK spells UNK . 

post: Vì thế tôi đã có một ý tưởng .
response: So I had an idea .
infer: So I had an idea . 
beam: So I had an idea . 

post: Từ khi còn nhỏ , tôi đã từng làm việc ở trong phòng mình cả ngày , và tôi thậm chí đã mở tung chiếc radio mới mua của mẹ , vào hôm đó bà gần như giết tôi , nhưng tôi đã học được nhiều điều về điện .
response: Since I was a small boy , I used to work in my room for the whole day , and I even took apart my mom &apos;s new radio , and that day she almost killed me , but I learned a lot about electronics .
infer: Since I was little , I used to work in my room all day , and I was even open up on my mother &apos;s UNK on that day and she was kind of killed me , but I learned a lot about electricity . 
beam: Since I was little , I used to work in my room a day , and I was even open up on my mother &apos;s UNK on that day and she was kind of killed me , but I learned a lot about electricity . 

post: Thế nên tôi đã lấy một bình ắc-quy xe ô tô cũ một hộp đồng hồ đo . Nó là một thiết bị nhỏ được tìm thấy ở xe mô tô và nó giúp người lái mô tô ra hiệu khi họ muốn rẽ trái hay rẽ phải . Nó chớp nháy .
response: So I got an old car battery , an indicator box . It &apos;s a small device found in a motorcycle , and it helps motorists when they want to turn right or left . It blinks .
infer: So I took an UNK car a UNK car , it was a little device that was found in a motorcycle , and it was helping UNK to do a little job when they &apos;d want to turn on the left or turn . 
beam: So I took an UNK car a UNK car , it was a little device that was found in a motorcycle , and it UNK the robot out as if they want to turn left or turn . 

post: Và tôi có được một công tắc để có thể tắt và mở đèn .
response: And I got a switch where I can switch on the lights , on and off .
infer: And I got a switch for UNK and UNK . 
beam: And I got a switch for UNK and UNK . 

post: Và đó là một bóng đèn nhỏ từ cây đèn pin vỡ .
response: And that &apos;s a small torch from a broken flashlight .
infer: And that &apos;s a little UNK of light UNK . 
beam: And that &apos;s a little UNK of light UNK . 

post: Và tôi lắp đặt mọi thứ .
response: So I set up everything .
infer: And I just assembled things . 
beam: And I assembled everything . 

post: Như các bạn có thể thấy , tấm pin mặt trời dùng để xạc ắc-quy , và bình ắc-quy cung cấp năng lượng cho hộp đồng hồ đo . Tôi gọi nó là máy biến thế .
response: As you can see , the solar panel charges the battery , and the battery supplies the power to the small indicator box . I call it a transformer .
infer: As you can see , the solar UNK used to UNK UNK , and UNK power power for UNK UNK UNK , I call it the UNK . 
beam: As you can see , solar battery were used for UNK UNK , and UNK UNK for UNK UNK UNK , I call it UNK . 

post: Và chiếc hộp đồng hồ đo làm cho đèn chớp tắt .
response: And the indicator box makes the lights flash .
infer: And the UNK UNK lights for a flash . 
beam: And the UNK UNK lights for lights . 

post: Như các bạn thấy đó , các bóng đèn hướng ra phía ngoài , bởi vì đó là hướng sư tử tiến vào .
response: As you can see , the bulbs face outside , because that &apos;s where the lions come from .
infer: As you can see , the UNK UNK off , because it &apos;s a lion UNK . 
beam: As you can see , the UNK UNK were out there , because it was a lion UNK . 

post: Và đó là cách mà ánh sáng chiếu về phía sư tử khi chúng đến vào đêm khuya .
response: And that &apos;s how it looks to lions when they come at night .
infer: And that &apos;s how the light UNK off the UNK when they come in late late . 
beam: And that &apos;s how the light UNK off the UNK when they come at night . 

post: Các bóng đèn chớp tắt và đánh lừa sư tử làm cho chúng nghĩ rằng tôi đang đi xung quanh chuồng bò , nhưng thực ra là tôi đang ngủ trên giường của mình .
response: The lights flash and trick the lions into thinking I was walking around the cowshed , but I was sleeping in my bed .
infer: The UNK UNK off and UNK lions did it for them to think that I was walking around the UNK , but actually I was sleeping in my bed . 
beam: The UNK UNK off and UNK lions did it for them to think that I was walking around the UNK , but actually I was sleeping in my bed . 

post: Cảm ơn
response: Thanks .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Tôi đã lắp đặt nó ở nhà mình 2 năm trước , kể từ đó , chúng tôi không hề gặp phải bất cứ vấn đề nào với sư tử cả .
response: So I set it up in my home two years ago , and since then , we have never experienced any problem with lions .
infer: I &apos;ve been installed it in my own couple of years ago , told us , we didn &apos;t have any problems with lions . 
beam: I put it in my house two years ago , told us , we didn &apos;t have any problems with lions . 

post: Các gia đình hàng xóm nghe kể về ý tưởng này .
response: And my neighboring homes heard about this idea .
infer: UNK walks around the ideas . 
beam: UNK walks around the ideas . 

post: Một trong số đó là người bà này .
response: One of them was this grandmother .
infer: One of them is this woman . 
beam: One of them is this woman . 

post: Bà có nhiều gia súc đã bị sư tử giết , và bà đã hỏi tôi liệu tôi có thể giúp bà lắp các bóng điện .
response: She had a lot of her animals being killed by lions , and she asked me if I could put the lights for her .
infer: She has been UNK by death , and she asked me if I could help her build the UNK . 
beam: She has been UNK by lions , and she asked me if I could help her build the UNK . 

post: Tôi trả lời , &quot; Vâng &quot; .
response: And I said , &quot; Yes . &quot;
infer: And I said , &quot; Yes . &quot; 
beam: And I said , &quot; Yes . &quot; 

post: Thế là tôi lắp đặt các bóng đèn . Các bạn có thể nhìn thấy ở đằng sau , chúng là các bóng đèn sư tử .
response: So I put the lights . You can see at the back , those are the lion lights .
infer: So I put the lights . You can see it in the back , they &apos;re UNK . 
beam: So I put the lights . You can see behind them , they &apos;re UNK . 

post: Cho đến nay , tôi đã giúp lắp đặt cho 7 hộ gia đình trong cộng đồng của mình , và chúng đều hoạt động hiệu quả .
response: Since now , I &apos;ve set up seven homes around my community , and they &apos;re really working .
infer: So far , I have helped my own seven families in the community , and they are all working in the efficiency . 
beam: So far , I have helped my own seven family households in the community , and they are all working successfully . 

post: Hiện nay ý tưởng của tôi đã được sử dụng trên khắp Kenya để xua đuổi các động vật ăn thịt khác như linh cẩu , báo , và nó cũng được sử dụng để doạ đàn voi tránh xa nông trại của người dân .
response: And my idea is also being used now all over Kenya for scaring other predators like hyenas , leopards , and it &apos;s also being used to scare elephants away from people &apos;s farms .
infer: Now my idea has been used all over Kenya to cover other animals , the UNK , the UNK , and it also used to prevent the rest of UNK UNK from people . 
beam: Now my idea has been used all over Kenya to cover other animals , the UNK , the UNK , and it &apos;s also used to UNK the UNK UNK from the people . 

post: Nhờ phát minh này , tôi đã may mắn nhận được học bổng ở một trong những trường học tốt nhất ở Kenya , trường Quốc tế Brookhouse , và tôi thực sự rất phấn khởi về điều này .
response: Because of this invention , I was lucky to get a scholarship in one of the best schools in Kenya , Brookhouse International School , and I &apos;m really excited about this .
infer: So this discovery , I was lucky to have a UNK at one of the best schools in Kenya , in the U.K. School , and I was very excited about this . 
beam: So , for this discovery , I was lucky to have a UNK at one of the best schools in Kenya , in the U.K. School , and I was very excited about this . 

post: Ngôi trường mới của tôi hiện đang bắt đầu giúp đỡ bằng cách quyên góp và nâng cao nhận thức .
response: My new school now is coming in and helping by fundraising and creating an awareness .
infer: So , for Green , we are already beginning to help UNK with UNK and UNK . 
beam: My new school is beginning to UNK by UNK and UNK . 

post: Thậm chí tôi đã dẫn những người bạn của tôi về cộng đồng của mình , và chúng tôi lắp đặt bóng đèn cho các hộ gia đình chưa tiếp cận được nó và tôi dạy cho họ cách để lắp đặt chúng .
response: I even took my friends back to my community , and we &apos;re installing the lights to the homes which don &apos;t have &#91; any &#93; , and I &apos;m teaching them how to put them .
infer: I even took my friends back to our community , and we put a UNK bulb for families who had no access to it and I gave them the way to install them . 
beam: I even took my friends back to our community , and we put the lights for family families who had no access to it and I gave them the way to install them . 

post: Một năm trước đó , tôi chỉ là một cậu bé ở vùng thảo nguyên chăn bò cho bố mình , tôi đã từng nhìn thấy những chiếc máy bay bay lượn , và tôi đã nói với chính mình rằng một ngày nào đó , tôi sẽ được ngồi vào bên trong nó .
response: So one year ago , I was just a boy in the savanna grassland herding my father &apos;s cows , and I used to see planes flying over , and I told myself that one day , I &apos;ll be there inside .
infer: A year before I was just a boy in a UNK UNK up my father , I used to see flying flying airplanes , and I said to myself , that I am going to be in the air , and I &apos;ve been looking at the inside of it
beam: A year ago , I was just a little boy in a UNK UNK on my father , and I used to see flying flying airplanes , and I said to myself , that I am going to be in the air , and I &apos;ve been looking at the

post: Và tôi ở đây ngày hôm nay .
response: And here I am today .
infer: And I &apos;m here today . 
beam: And I &apos;m here today . 

post: Tôi đã có cơ hội đi đến đây bằng máy bay lần đầu tiên để tham gia TED .
response: I got a chance to come by plane for my first time for TED .
infer: I had the opportunity to get here with the first time to get here for the TED . 
beam: I had the opportunity to get here with the first time to get here for the TED . 

post: Ước mơ lớn nhất của tôi là trở thành một kỹ sư máy bay và phi công khi lớn lên .
response: So my big dream is to become an aircraft engineer and pilot when I grow up .
infer: My biggest dream became to become an industrial engineer and pilots as a child . 
beam: My dream dream was to become a conservation engineer and pilots as a child grew up . 

post: Tôi đã từng ghét sư tử , nhưng bây giờ bởi vì phát minh của tôi đang cứu đàn bò của bố và sư tử , chúng tôi có thể sống chung với sư tử mà không có bất cứ xung đột nào .
response: I used to hate lions , but now because my invention is saving my father &apos;s cows and the lions , we are able to stay with the lions without any conflict .
infer: I UNK lions , but now because my invention was working on the UNK of the father and lions , we can live with lions without any conflict . 
beam: I UNK lions , but now because my invention was saving UNK and lions , we were able to live with lions without any conflict . 

post: Ashê olên . Theo ngôn ngữ của tôi , nó có nghĩa là cảm ơn rất nhiều .
response: Ashê olên . It means in my language , thank you very much .
infer: UNK UNK . In my language , it means that a lot of UNK . 
beam: UNK UNK . In my language , it means a lot of a lot . 

post: Cháu không biết là thật là thú vị biết bao khi nghe câu chuyện của cháu .
response: You have no idea how exciting it is to hear a story like yours .
infer: I don &apos;t know that it &apos;s quite interesting to hear your story . 
beam: I don &apos;t know it &apos;s quite interesting to hear your story . 

post: Vậy là cháu đã có học bổng này . Vâng .
response: So you got this scholarship . Yep .
infer: So , I have learned this here . 
beam: So , I got this scholarship . Yeah . 

post: Cháu đang làm những phát minh về điện khác .
response: You &apos;re working on other electrical inventions .
infer: You &apos;re doing some other UNK UNK . 
beam: You &apos;re doing other UNK . 

post: Phát minh nào tiếp theo trong danh sách của cháu ?
response: What &apos;s the next one on your list ?
infer: What &apos;s going on in your book ? 
beam: What &apos;s going on in your book ? 

post: Phát minh sắp tới của cháu , cháu muốn làm một hàng rào điện . Hàng rào điện sao ?
response: My next invention is , I want to make an electric fence . Electric fence ?
infer: UNK to be in her UNK , she wanted to do a wire fence . What was an electronic fence ? 
beam: UNK to her , you want to do a wire fence . What &apos;s the UNK ? 

post: Cháu biết là hàng rào điện đã được phát minh rồi , nhưng cháu muốn làm cái của riêng mình .
response: But I know electric fences are already invented , but I want to make mine .
infer: I know how the UNK were invented , but I wanted to own one of my own . 
beam: You know that the electrodes have been invented , but you want to own your own . 

post: Cháu đã thử , đúng không , và cháu ... Cháu đó thử trước đây nhưng cháu đã dừng lại vì bị giật điện .
response: You already tried it once , right , and you -- I tried it before , but I stopped because it gave me a shock .
infer: You tried , right , and you ... And he tried before , but I stopped because of UNK . 
beam: You tried , right , and you ... And he tried before , but I stopped because of UNK . 

post: Richard Turere , cháu thật khác biệt .
response: In the trenches . Richard Turere , you are something else .
infer: Richard UNK , I was so different . 
beam: Richard UNK , I was so different . 

post: Chúng tôi sẽ cỗ vũ cháu trên con đường cháu đi , anh bạn nhỏ .
response: We &apos;re going to cheer you on every step of the way , my friend .
infer: We &apos;re going to UNK you on our street , his own friend . 
beam: We &apos;re going to UNK you on our UNK . 

post: Cảm ơn cháu rất nhiều . Cảm ơn .
response: Thank you so much . Thank you .
infer: Thank you very much . Thank you . 
beam: Thank you very much . Thank you . 

post: Những gì tôi làm , và những gì tôi làm chuyên về-- cuộc đời tôi--đã được đinh hình trong bảy năm làm việc tại Châu Phi khi còn trẻ
response: Everything I do , and everything I do professionally -- my life -- has been shaped by seven years of work as a young man in Africa .
infer: What I did , and what I did was I was UNK in my life , UNK for seven years of work in Africa when I was a kid . 
beam: So what I did , and what I was trying to do was UNK in the past seven years of work in Africa when I was a kid . 

post: Từ năm 1971 đến 1977-- Trông tôi trẻ thế chứ không phải vậy đâu ---- Tôi đã làm việc tại Zambia , Kenya , Ivory Coast , Algeria , Somalia , trong những dự án hợp tác về kỹ thuật với những quốc gia Châu Phi
response: From 1971 to 1977 -- I look young , but I &apos;m not — -- I worked in Zambia , Kenya , Ivory Coast , Algeria , Somalia , in projects of technical cooperation with African countries .
infer: So , in the UNK I was not , it was not that -- I worked in Oakland , Kenya , UNK , UNK , Somalia , in the project of work , in the technology of engineering , of the African countries . 
beam: And so from the &apos; 40s to UNK , I was young , and it was not something that -- I worked in Oakland , Kenya , UNK , UNK , Somalia , in UNK projects with African countries . 

post: Tôi đã làm việc cho tổ chức phi chính phủ của Ý và mỗi một dự án chúng tôi lập ra tại Châu Phi thất bại
response: I worked for an Italian NGO , and every single project that we set up in Africa failed .
infer: I worked for NGOs , and we went to the UNK chief government , and we came out for the UNK UNK , and we brought out to the UNK , and we opened it out for Africa . 
beam: I worked for NGOs , and each project we built out of Africa . 

post: Tôi đã rất sầu não .
response: And I was distraught .
infer: I was UNK . 
beam: I was UNK . 

post: Mới 21 tuổi đời , tôi nghĩ , người Ý là người tốt và chúng tôi đang làm việc tốt tại Châu Phi
response: I thought , age 21 , that we Italians were good people and we were doing good work in Africa .
infer: And I &apos;m even , in the age of the age of the UNK , the good person , and we are working in Africa . 
beam: And even 21 years old , I think , people are good and we &apos;re working in Africa . 

post: Nhưng thay vì thế , chúng tôi giết chết mọi thứ mà chúng tôi đụng vào .
response: Instead , everything we touched we killed .
infer: But instead , we killed everything we were in . 
beam: But instead , we killed everything that we were in . 

post: Dự án đầu tiên , cái đã truyền cảm hứng cho cuốn sách đầu tiên của tôi , &quot; Những cơn sóng nhẹ từ Zambezi , &quot; là một dự án trong đó người Ý quyết định dạy cho người Zambia trồng thực phẩm .
response: Our first project , the one that has inspired my first book , &quot; Ripples from the Zambezi , &quot; was a project where we Italians decided to teach Zambian people how to grow food .
infer: The first project , which was UNK for my first book , &quot; UNK UNK from UNK , &quot; which is a project in which the Chinese decided to teach the food . 
beam: So my first project , which was inspired for my first book , &quot; UNK UNK from UNK , &quot; which is a project in which I decided to teach the food UNK . 

post: Thế nên chúng tôi miền nam Zambia với những hạt giống từ nước Ý tại một thung lũng tuyệt đẹp trải dài xuống sông Zambezi , và chúng tôi dạy cho người dân bản đại trồng cà chua Ý và bí ngòi Ý và ...
response: So we arrived there with Italian seeds in southern Zambia in this absolutely magnificent valley going down to the Zambezi River , and we taught the local people how to grow Italian tomatoes and zucchini and ...
infer: So we &apos;re Southern Southern seeds with seeds in Italy in a UNK valley UNK the UNK of UNK , and we teach the people of UNK UNK and the mystical and so ... 
beam: So we &apos;re Southern Southern seeds with seeds in Italy in a UNK valley UNK the UNK of UNK , and we teach the people of UNK UNK and the mystical and so ... 

post: Tất nhiên những người dân bản địa chẳng mấy hứng thú làm công việc này , vậy nên chúng tôi trả công cho họ , và đôi lúc họ mới đến làm việc .
response: And of course the local people had absolutely no interest in doing that , so we paid them to come and work , and sometimes they would show up .
infer: Of course , people are not interested in doing this kind of stuff , so we paid them , and sometimes they &apos;re getting up . 
beam: Of course , people are not interested in people doing this work , so we paid them , and sometimes they come to work . 

post: Chúng tôi thực sự ngạc nhiên về những người bản địa , tại thung lũng màu mỡ như thế này lại chẳng trồng trọt gì .
response: And we were amazed that the local people , in such a fertile valley , would not have any agriculture .
infer: We &apos;re really amazed by the local UNK , and in this sort of UNK valley like this , it &apos;s not going to be growing out . 
beam: We &apos;re actually surprised by the UNK , in this sort of UNK valley like this . 

post: Nhưng thay vì hỏi sao họ lại chẳng trồng bất cứ thứ gì , chúng tôi đơn giản thốt lên rằng , &quot; Cám ơn Chúa chúng con đã ở đây . &quot;
response: But instead of asking them how come they were not growing anything , we simply said , &quot; Thank God we &apos;re here . &quot;
infer: But instead of asking it they did not end anything , we said , &quot; Thank you God &apos;s been here . &quot; 
beam: But instead of asking it they did not end anything , we said , &quot; Thank you God has been here . &quot; 

post: &quot; Vừa kịp lúc để cứu người Zambia khỏi nạn đói . &quot;
response: &quot; Just in the nick of time to save the Zambian people from starvation . &quot;
infer: &quot; It &apos;s often the end of a cure of UNK people from hunger . &quot; 
beam: &quot; It &apos;s often a man for UNK people from hunger . &quot; 

post: Và tất nhiên , mọi thứ tại Châu Phi đều phát triển tốt
response: And of course , everything in Africa grew beautifully .
infer: And of course , everything in Africa is going well . 
beam: And of course , everything in Africa is improving well . 

post: Chúng tôi có những quả cà chua rất tuyệt vời . Tại Ý , một quả cà chua chỉ to khoảng bằng này . Tại Zambia , nó to tới cỡ này này .
response: We had these magnificent tomatoes . In Italy , a tomato would grow to this size . In Zambia , to this size .
infer: So we have a very good UNK . In Italy , a UNK UNK that &apos;s about this . In one UNK , it &apos;s about this size . 
beam: So we have very amazing UNK . In Italy , a UNK UNK about this . In one point , it &apos;s about this size . 

post: Thật khó tin , và chúng tôi nói với những người Zambia , &quot; Mọi người xem trồng trọt có đễ dàng không này . &quot;
response: And we could not believe , and we were telling the Zambians , &quot; Look how easy agriculture is . &quot;
infer: It was incredible , and we said to the UNK , &quot; People say , you know , we have UNK . That &apos;s not that . &quot; 
beam: It was incredible enough , and we said to the UNK , &quot; People say UNK UNK . &quot; 

post: Khi mà những quả cà chua bắt đầu đạt , chín , và có màu đỏ , chỉ qua một đêm , chừng khoảng 200 con hà mã từ dưới sông trồi lên và ngốn sạch tất cả .
response: When the tomatoes were nice and ripe and red , overnight , some 200 hippos came out from the river and they ate everything .
infer: When the UNK UNK comes , nine , and there are red , and there are red , and they have red , and there are about 200 UNK UNK from the UNK , and UNK all the rest . 
beam: When the UNK UNK began , nine , and there were red , just overnight , about 200 UNK UNK from the UNK and UNK in all . 

post: Chúng tôi nói với những người Zambia , &quot; Chúa ơi , những con hà mã kìa ! &quot;
response: And we said to the Zambians , &quot; My God , the hippos ! &quot;
infer: We said to the UNK , &quot; My gosh , these UNK ! 
beam: We said to people , &quot; My gosh , these UNK ! &quot; 

post: và người dân đáp rằng , &quot; Vâng , đó là lí do tại sao chúng tôi chẳng trồng thứ gì ở đây cả . &quot;
response: And the Zambians said , &quot; Yes , that &apos;s why we have no agriculture here . &quot;
infer: And the people said , &quot; Well , that &apos;s why we don &apos;t have anything here . &quot; 
beam: And the people said , &quot; Well , that &apos;s why we don &apos;t have anything here . &quot; 

post: &quot; Thế tại sao mọi người không cho chúng tôi biết trước ? &quot; &quot; Anh có bao giờ hỏi đâu . &quot;
response: &quot; Why didn &apos;t you tell us ? &quot; &quot; You never asked . &quot;
infer: &quot; And why don &apos;t you just put us know first ? &quot; &quot; Have you ever asked yourself . &quot; 
beam: &quot; And why don &apos;t you just put us know first ? &quot; &quot; Have you ever asked yourself . &quot; 

post: Tôi đã nghĩ chỉ có mỗi người Ý là khờ khạo trên đất Châu Phi nhưng sau đó khi tôi nhìn những gì mà người Mỹ đang làm , những người Anh đang làm , những người Pháp đang làm , và sau khi chứng kiến những gì họ làm , Tôi cảm thấy có chút gì đó tự hào về dự án của mình tại Zambia
response: I thought it was only us Italians blundering around Africa , but then I saw what the Americans were doing , what the English were doing , what the French were doing , and after seeing what they were doing , I became quite proud of our project in Zambia .
infer: I thought that there were two UNK in Africa , but then when I saw what the Americans are doing , the UNK , the French people , and after realizing what they did , I felt something was very proud of my project in the country . 
beam: I thought that there were two UNK on the country , but then when I saw what the Americans were doing , what the French people are doing , the French people doing , and after realizing what they did , I felt something was very proud about my project

post: Bởi vì , bạn thấy đó , chỉ ít chúng tôi cũng nuôi ăn được mấy con hà mã
response: Because , you see , at least we fed the hippos .
infer: Because , you see , we &apos;re just a few , you know , UNK , that &apos;s the code . 
beam: Because , because , you see , we &apos;ve also fed up the UNK . 

post: Bạn nên nhìn vào cái thứ vớ vẩn---- Bạn nên nhìn vào cái thứ vớ vẩn mà chúng ta đã ban cho những người dân Châu Phi không mảy may nghi ngờ .
response: You should see the rubbish — -- You should see the rubbish that we have bestowed on unsuspecting African people .
infer: You should look at the UNK thing -- you should look at the UNK thing , so we &apos;re already UNK by people who are UNK , but UNK UNK . 
beam: You should look at the UNK thing , so you should look at the UNK thing that we &apos;ve already been for Africans who are UNK UNK . 

post: Bạn muốn đọc cuốn sách nào đó , hãy đọc &quot; Sự Viện Trợ chết chóc , &quot; viết bởi Dambisa Moyo , một nhà nữ kinh tế người Zambia .
response: You want to read the book , read &quot; Dead Aid , &quot; by Dambisa Moyo , Zambian woman economist .
infer: You want to read the book , say , &quot; UNK UNK , &quot; by UNK UNK , a UNK UNK . 
beam: You want to read the book , say , &quot; UNK UNK , &quot; by UNK UNK , a UNK UNK . 

post: Cuốn sách được phát hành năm 2009 .
response: The book was published in 2009 .
infer: The book was given in 2009 . 
beam: The book was given in 2009 . 

post: Chúng ta , những quốc gia viện trợ Tây Phương đã mang đến lục địa Châu Phi 2 tỉ tỉ Mỹ Kim trong vòng 50 năm qua .
response: We Western donor countries have given the African continent two trillion American dollars in the last 50 years .
infer: We , national aid countries have brought to Africa , 2 billion UNK over the last 50 years . 
beam: We , national aid countries brought to Africa 2 billion UNK over the last 50 years . 

post: Tôi sẽ không nói với bạn những thiệt hại mà số tiền đó đã gây ra .
response: I &apos;m not going to tell you the damage that that money has done .
infer: I will not tell you how that money is causing . 
beam: I will not tell you how that money is causing . 

post: hãy tìm đọc cuốn sách của bà ấy .
response: Just go and read her book .
infer: And find read her book . 
beam: Find read her book . 

post: Đọc nó từ một người phụ nữ Châu Phi , những thiệt hại mà chúng ta đã gây ra .
response: Read it from an African woman , the damage that we have done .
infer: When I could find it from a woman who was UNK , the damage that we had to do . 
beam: When you look at it from an African woman , the damage that we &apos;ve created . 

post: Những người Tây Phương như chúng ta là những người theo chủ nghĩa đế quốc , thực dân truyền giáo , và chúng ta chỉ có hai cách để đối xử với người khác : hoặc bảo trợ , hoặc bảo hộ
response: We Western people are imperialist , colonialist missionaries , and there are only two ways we deal with people : We either patronize them , or we are paternalistic .
infer: The Westerners like us are the UNK , UNK UNK , and we only have two ways of dealing with other people : UNK , or conservative . 
beam: The Westerners like us are UNK , UNK , and we only have two ways of dealing with other people : UNK , or security . 

post: Hai từ có nguồn gốc từ tiếng La Tinh &quot; pater , &quot; có nghĩa là &quot; làm cha . &quot;
response: The two words come from the Latin root &quot; pater , &quot; which means &quot; father . &quot;
infer: Two words from &quot; UNK , &quot; which means &quot; UNK . &quot; 
beam: Two words from &quot; UNK , &quot; which means &quot; UNK . &quot; 

post: Những chúng mang hai nghĩa khác biệt .
response: But they mean two different things .
infer: They are making two different things . 
beam: Those are two different things . 

post: Bảo hộ , là tôi đối xử với bất cứ người nào đến từ nền văn hoá khác như thể họ là con tôi . &quot; Tôi yêu chúng quá . &quot;
response: Paternalistic , I treat anybody from a different culture as if they were my children . &quot; I love you so much . &quot;
infer: UNK , I am treating anyone from another culture as if they were my child . &quot; I love them . &quot; 
beam: UNK , I was treating anyone from another culture as if they were my child . &quot; I love them . &quot; 

post: Bảo trợ , tôi đối xử với tất cả mọi người từ nền văn hoá khác như đầy tớ của mình .
response: Patronizing , I treat everybody from another culture as if they were my servants .
infer: UNK , I was dealing with all people from the rest of my culture like my UNK . 
beam: UNK , I was dealing with everybody from such culture as my UNK . 

post: Đó là lí do tại sao người da trắng tại Châu Phi được gọi là &quot; bwana , &quot; ông chủ .
response: That &apos;s why the white people in Africa are called &quot; bwana , &quot; boss .
infer: That &apos;s why the UNK people are called &quot; UNK , &quot; he . 
beam: That &apos;s why white people are called &quot; UNK , &quot; he . 

post: Tôi như bị tát vào mặt khi đọc cuốn sách , &quot; Nhỏ bé nhưng tuyệt đẹp , &quot; viết bởi Schumacher , nói rằng , trên hết tất cả , trong sự phát triển kinh tế , nếu người khác không cần giúp đỡ , hãy để mặc họ .
response: I was given a slap in the face reading a book , &quot; Small is Beautiful , &quot; written by Schumacher , who said , above all in economic development , if people do not wish to be helped , leave them alone .
infer: I &apos;m just UNK to the UNK UNK , and I &apos;m like , &quot; UNK boy , &quot; written by UNK , saying , &quot; UNK , &quot; by the way , in economic growth , if others don &apos;t need help , leave them . 
beam: I was UNK in the face of reading the book , &quot; UNK , but UNK , &quot; wrote by UNK , saying , on top of all , in economic growth , if others don &apos;t need help , leave them . 

post: Đây nên đáng là nguyên tắc đầu tiên về viện trợ .
response: This should be the first principle of aid .
infer: So this is going to be the first commandment of aid . 
beam: This is supposed to be the first commandment of aid . 

post: Nguyên tắc đầu tiên về viện trợ là tôn trọng .
response: The first principle of aid is respect .
infer: The first one &apos;s important is respect . 
beam: The first UNK in aid is respect . 

post: Sáng nay , người tổ chức buổi họp này đặt một cây gậy ra sàn nhà , và nói , &quot; Liệu chúng ta có thể--hình dung về một thành phố mà không phải là chủ nghĩa thực dân mới không ? &quot;
response: This morning , the gentleman who opened this conference lay a stick on the floor , and said , &quot; Can we -- can you imagine a city that is not neocolonial ? &quot;
infer: This session , though , the auditorium has put a man together to the floor , and says , &quot; Would we have the UNK of a city without a new UNK ? &quot; 
beam: This session , though , the UNK conference puts an UNK to the floor , and says , &quot; Will we have the idea of a city that isn &apos;t a new UNK ? &quot; 

post: Khi 27 tuổi , tôi đã quyết định chỉ hưởng ứng với mọi người và tôi đã tạo ra một hệ thống gọi là Enterprise Facilitation , nơi mà bạn sẽ không khởi đầu bất cứ thứ gì bạn không bao giờ thúc đẩy ai , nhưng trở thành một người đầy tớ cho khát vọng bản địa , người đầy tớ của người bản địa những người có giấc mơ muốn trở thành một con người tốt hơn .
response: I decided when I was 27 years old to only respond to people , and I invented a system called Enterprise Facilitation , where you never initiate anything , you never motivate anybody , but you become a servant of the local passion , the servant of local people who have a dream to become a better person .
infer: When I was 27 , I decided that just to UNK to everybody , and I was a fully UNK for the local ambition , the UNK of people who would dream who wanted to be a better person . 
beam: When I was 27 , I decided that just to UNK to people , and I made a UNK called UNK UNK , which is where you &apos;re not going to start to have any UNK thing , but become a UNK for the local ambition , the UNK of

post: Vậy bạn làm gì--bạn im miệng .
response: So what you do -- you shut up .
infer: So you &apos;re making a hold of your mouth . 
beam: So you UNK the mouth . 

post: Đừng bao giờ mang đến một cộng đồng với những ý tưởng , bạn ngồi với người bản địa .
response: You never arrive in a community with any ideas , and you sit with the local people .
infer: You can have to bring a community with these ideas , you sit with a local self . 
beam: Don &apos;t bring to a community with ideological ideas , you sit with local people . 

post: Chúng tôi không làm việc từ những văn phòng .
response: We don &apos;t work from offices .
infer: We didn &apos;t work from the offices . 
beam: We didn &apos;t work from the offices . 

post: Chúng tôi gặp gỡ tại quán cà phê . Quán rượu .
response: We meet at the cafe . We meet at the pub .
infer: We meet with coffee . We have UNK . 
beam: We met with UNK . UNK UNK . 

post: Chúng tôi không có bất cứ cơ sở hạ tầng nào .
response: We have zero infrastructure .
infer: We have no close infrastructure . 
beam: We have no close infrastructure . 

post: và cái chúng tôi làm là trở thành bạn của nhau , và tìm ra cái mà người đó muốn làm .
response: And what we do , we become friends , and we find out what that person wants to do .
infer: And what we did was we became friends , and found what that person wants to do . 
beam: And what we did was we became friends , and found what that person wants to do . 

post: Cái quan trọng nhất là khát vọng .
response: The most important thing is passion .
infer: The most important one is desire . 
beam: The most important one is desire . 

post: Bạn có thể cho ai đó một ý tưởng .
response: You can give somebody an idea .
infer: You can give somebody a sense for somebody else . 
beam: You can give somebody an idea for somebody else . 

post: Nếu người đó không muốn làm , vậy thì bạn phải làm sao ?
response: If that person doesn &apos;t want to do it , what are you going to do ?
infer: If that person doesn &apos;t want to be done , then how do you do that ? 
beam: If that person doesn &apos;t want to be done , then you have to do it ? 

post: Cái khát vọng của người phụ nữ có cho sự phát triển của bản thân là thứ quan trọng nhất .
response: The passion that the person has for her own growth is the most important thing .
infer: The UNK &apos;s expectation of innovation is the most important one . 
beam: The UNK &apos;s expectation for innovation is the most important one . 

post: Cái khát vọng của nam giới có cho sự phát triển của cá nhân là thứ quan trọng nhất .
response: The passion that that man has for his own personal growth is the most important thing .
infer: The UNK &apos;s expectation of growth is the most important one . 
beam: The dying of men is assuming the growth of individual is the most important . 

post: và chúng tôi giúp họ tiến hành tìm kiếm sự hiểu biết , vì chẳng ai trên thế giới có thể thành công một mình .
response: And then we help them to go and find the knowledge , because nobody in the world can succeed alone .
infer: And we helped them go out finding awareness , because no one else in the world could succeed alone . 
beam: And we helped them go on finding awareness , because no one in the world could succeed alone . 

post: Người có ý tưởng chưa chắc đã có sự hiểu biết , nhưng sự hiểu biết luôn hiện hữu .
response: The person with the idea may not have the knowledge , but the knowledge is available .
infer: People who have an idea has no idea , but the understanding has always been right . 
beam: People who have an idea has no idea , but the understanding is always present . 

post: Vậy nên nhiều năm trước , tôi có ý tưởng thế này : Tại sao chúng ta không , chỉ một lần , thay vì , đến một cộng đồng , và nói với những người ở đó họ nên làm gì , sao chúng ta không , lắng nghe họ dù chỉ một lần ? Nhưng không phải trong những cuộc họp cộng đồng
response: So years and years ago , I had this idea : Why don &apos;t we , for once , instead of arriving in the community to tell people what to do , why don &apos;t , for once , listen to them ? But not in community meetings .
infer: So a number of years ago , I had an idea : Why not we , just once , instead of , to a community , and say to the people who have , they should do something , why don &apos;t we hear them , even one time ?
beam: So a number of years ago , I had an idea : Why don &apos;t we , just once , instead of , go to a community , and say to them where they should do , why don &apos;t we , listen to them , even one time ?

post: Để tôi nói bạn biết một bí mật .
response: Let me tell you a secret .
infer: Let me tell you that you know a secret . 
beam: Let me tell you a secret . 

post: Có một vần đề trong những cuộc họp cộng đồng .
response: There is a problem with community meetings .
infer: There is a UNK in public meetings . 
beam: There is a UNK in public meetings . 

post: Những doanh nhân chẳng bao giờ đến dự , và họ chẳng đời nào cho bạn biết , trong buổi họp cộng đồng , cái họ muốn làm với tiền của mình , cái cơ hội mà họ mới tìm ra .
response: Entrepreneurs never come , and they never tell you , in a public meeting , what they want to do with their own money , what opportunity they have identified .
infer: UNK never got to the plan , and they didn &apos;t always know always , in a community meeting , what they wanted to do with their money , the opportunity they were just exploring . 
beam: UNK are never going to come to a plan , and they don &apos;t always say , in a community meeting , what they want to do with their money , the opportunity they &apos;ve discovered . 

post: Vậy nên hoạch định có một điểm mù này .
response: So planning has this blind spot .
infer: So , there &apos;s a blind spot that &apos;s going to be a blind shot . 
beam: So there &apos;s a blind spot here . 

post: những người thông thái nhất trong cộng đồng bạn chẳng bao giờ biết được vì họ chẳng đời nào đến dự những buổi họp công cộng .
response: The smartest people in your community you don &apos;t even know , because they don &apos;t come to your public meetings .
infer: The best people in the community , you never know how fast people have , in a long time near public meetings , visit . 
beam: The best people in the community , you never know , because they have none of their public public meetings . 

post: Cái chúng tôi làm là làm việc một-đối-một và để làm điều đó , bạn phải tạo ra một cấu trúc xã hội hiện không tồn tại .
response: What we do , we work one-on-one , and to work one-on-one , you have to create a social infrastructure that doesn &apos;t exist .
infer: What we did was work UNK and to do that , you have to create a modern structure that doesn &apos;t exist . 
beam: What we do is work UNK , and to do that , you have to create a modern UNK structure . 

post: bạn phải tạo ra một chuyên ngành mới .
response: You have to create a new profession .
infer: You have to invent a new kind of enterprise . 
beam: You have to invent a new drug . 

post: Một chuyên ngành mới như một bác sỹ gia đình cho doanh nghiệp , bác sỹ gia đình cho công việc làm ăn , người ngồi với bạn trong nhà bạn , tại bàn cơm trong bếp , tại quán cà phê , và giúp bạn tìm ra những nguồn tài nguyên để biến khát vọng của bạn thành một phương cách kiếm sống .
response: The profession is the family doctor of enterprise , the family doctor of business , who sits with you in your house , at your kitchen table , at the cafe , and helps you find the resources to transform your passion into a way to make a living .
infer: UNK is like a family family , and a family &apos;s family , and a family &apos;s family , and she &apos;s UNK , and she &apos;s UNK , and she &apos;s UNK in UNK , at coffee , and it allows you to find your resource UNK for your
beam: UNK is like a family family , and a family &apos;s family has been a family for a job , and she &apos;s got a family for a UNK , and she &apos;s in a UNK , in the coffee , and it helps you find your resource resource to

post: Tôi đã bắt đầu như một sự thử nghiệm tại Esperance , tây Úc .
response: I started this as a tryout in Esperance , in Western Australia .
infer: I started as a UNK in UNK , UNK . 
beam: I started as a UNK in UNK , UNK . 

post: Tôi đang theo học tiến sỹ triết học tại thời điểm đó , cố gắng tránh xa khỏi cái phương thức bảo hộ vớ vẩn đó là đến và bảo cho bạn biết phải làm gì .
response: I was a doing a Ph.D. at the time , trying to go away from this patronizing bullshit that we arrive and tell you what to do .
infer: I was in a UNK at that time , trying to get away from the UNK of the UNK , and it told you what to do . 
beam: I was in a UNK at that moment , trying to get away from the UNK of the UNK and told you what to do . 

post: Vậy nên cái mà tôi làm trong năm đầu tiên tại Esperance là chỉ bách bộ trên đường , và trong 3 ngày Tôi có khách hàng đầu tiên Một người làm nghề hun khói cá trong nhà xe , tên là Maori , và tôi giúp anh ta bán cá cho một nhà hàng tại Perth , và tổ chức lại công việc , sau đó thì một người đánh cá tìm đến tôi và nói Ông là người đã giúp Maori hả ? Ông có thể giúp tôi với không ?
response: And so what I did in Esperance that first year was to just walk the streets , and in three days I had my first client , and I helped this first guy who was smoking fish from a garage , was a Maori guy , and I helped him to sell to the restaurant in Perth , to get organized , and then the fishermen came to me to say , &quot; You the guy who helped Maori ? Can you help us ? &quot;
infer: So , in the first three days , I was UNK for a restaurant in UNK , and the UNK , then , one of the UNK came to me and said , &quot; You &apos;ve got UNK ? Can you help me ? You know , in the first
beam: So , so , in the first three days , that &apos;s just UNK on the road , and for the first three days , that &apos;s just walking on the road , and for the first three days , one type of work came to me and said ,

post: và tôi giúp những người đánh cá này biết cách làm việc cùng nhau và bán những con cá ngừ hảo hạng này không phải cho nhà máy đồ hộp tại Albany với giá 60 đồng một kí , nhưng chúng tôi tìm cách bán chúng tới Nhật Bản để làm sushi với giá 15 đô la một kí , và rồi những người nông dân tìm đến , nói rằng , &quot; Này , ông đã giúp mấy người đó. ông có thể giúp chúng tôi không ? &quot;
response: And I helped these five fishermen to work together and get this beautiful tuna not to the cannery in Albany for 60 cents a kilo , but we found a way to take the fish for sushi to Japan for 15 dollars a kilo , and the farmers came to talk to me , said , &quot; Hey , you helped them . Can you help us ? &quot;
infer: And I was helping these UNK to UNK UNK , and we were able to UNK the UNK to do the 15 dollar UNK , and then we UNK it to do it for 15 dollars a sign , and then the farmer came up , said , &quot; Hey
beam: UNK UNK , with the 60 UNK , but we find out how to trade it to Japan , and we can sell these UNK UNK , and we know , &quot; Hey , you &apos;ve got so many people , can you help us ? &quot; 

post: Trong một năm , tôi có 27 dự án liên tiếp và người của chính phủ đến tìm hỏi tôi , &quot; Ông làm như thế nào vậy ?
response: In a year , I had 27 projects going on , and the government came to see me to say , &quot; How can you do that ?
infer: For one year , I had 27 UNK project and the person to go to me , &quot; What did you do ? 
beam: For one year , I had 27 UNK project and the person to go to me , &quot; How did you do ? 

post: Ông làm thế nào-- ? &quot; Và tôi đáp , &quot; Tôi đã làm một việc rất ư là khó .
response: How can you do — ? &quot; And I said , &quot; I do something very , very , very difficult .
infer: And so , when he did that ? &quot; And I said , &quot; I did something really difficult . 
beam: How did you do that ? &quot; And I said , &quot; I &apos;m doing something really difficult . 

post: Tôi im miệng , và lắng nghe họ . &quot;
response: I shut up , and listen to them . &quot;
infer: I would lie to my mouth , and listen to me . &quot; 
beam: I would silence , and I listen to them . &quot; 

post: Vậy nên---- Vậy nên chính phủ nói với tôi , &quot; Cứ làm tiếp nhé . &quot;
response: So — — So the government says , &quot; Do it again . &quot;
infer: So the government said to me , &quot; Keep up . &quot; 
beam: So the government said to me , &quot; Keep up . &quot; 

post: Chúng tôi đã làm thế tại 300 cộng đồng trên khắp thế giới .
response: We &apos;ve done it in 300 communities around the world .
infer: We &apos;ve been doing in 300 communities around the world . 
beam: We did in 300 communities around the world . 

post: Chúng tôi đã giúp khởi động 40,000 công việc làm ăn .
response: We have helped to start 40,000 businesses .
infer: We helped started to do the 40,000 jobs . 
beam: We helped started UNK jobs . 

post: Có một thế hệ doanh nhân mới những người đang kiệt quệ vì sự cô lập .
response: There is a new generation of entrepreneurs who are dying of solitude .
infer: There &apos;s a new entrepreneur of new people who are UNK at isolation . 
beam: There &apos;s a new entrepreneur of new people who are UNK at isolation . 

post: Peter Drucker , một trong những cố vấn về quản lí vĩ đại nhất trong lịch sử , qua đời khi 96 tuổi , một vài năm trước .
response: Peter Drucker , one of the greatest management consultants in history , died age 96 , a few years ago .
infer: Peter UNK , one of the most UNK of the UNK management of history , historically , is UNK , a few years ago . 
beam: Peter UNK , who &apos;s one of the great UNK of the history in history , past 96 , was a couple of years ago . 

post: Peter Drucker là một giáo sư triết học trước khi làm công việc liên quan có đến kinh doanh , và đây là điều mà Peter Drucker nói : &quot; Hoạch định thực sự không tương thích với một xã hội và một nền kinh tế kinh doanh . &quot;
response: Peter Drucker was a professor of philosophy before becoming involved in business , and this is what Peter Drucker says : &quot; Planning is actually incompatible with an entrepreneurial society and economy . &quot;
infer: Peter UNK is a professor professor by doing something that has to do with business , and this is what Peter UNK says , &quot; UNK doesn &apos;t match the social as a society and a business economy . &quot; 
beam: Peter UNK is a professor professor before working with business , and this is what Peter UNK says , &quot; UNK &apos;t really not match the UNK and the business economy . &quot; 

post: Hoạch định là nụ hôn thần chết đối với doanh nhân .
response: Planning is the kiss of death of entrepreneurship .
infer: UNK is a fatal kiss for the entrepreneur . 
beam: UNK is a fatal kiss for entrepreneurs . 

post: Thế nên ngay bây giờ bạn đang tái dựng lại Christchurch mà không biết rằng những người thông thái nhất tại Christchurch muốn làm gì với tiền của &amp; amp ; tiềm lực của họ .
response: So now you &apos;re rebuilding Christchurch without knowing what the smartest people in Christchurch want to do with their own money and their own energy .
infer: So now you &apos;re UNK UNK that &apos;s not knowing that the UNK UNK want to do with the money on the UNK , what the UNK want . 
beam: So you &apos;re UNK now , without knowing that the UNK UNK want to do with the money of UNK ; their UNK . 

post: Bạn phải học cách khiến những người này tìm đến nói chuyện với bạn .
response: You have to learn how to get these people to come and talk to you .
infer: You have to learn how to get people to talk to you . 
beam: You have to learn how to get people to talk to you . 

post: Bạn phải đưa đến cho họ sự bảo mật , riêng tư , bạn phải thật sự hứng khởi khi giúp họ , và họ sẽ tới , theo đám đông lũ lượt kéo tới .
response: You have to offer them confidentiality , privacy , you have to be fantastic at helping them , and then they will come , and they will come in droves .
infer: You have to give them UNK , private , you have to really get the inspiration to help them , and they will come , with the UNK of all the time that they come . 
beam: You have to give them the security , private , you have to really be really excited to help them , and they will come , as they go , as they go . 

post: Với một cộng đồng 10,000 người , chúng ta có thể có khoảng 200 khách hàng .
response: In a community of 10,000 people , we get 200 clients .
infer: With a 10,000 community , we might have about 200 clients . 
beam: With a 10,000 community , we might have about 200 clients . 

post: BẠn có thể tượng tưởng một cộng đồng 400,000 người , vối trí thông minh và khát vọng ?
response: Can you imagine a community of 400,000 people , the intelligence and the passion ?
infer: Can you imagine being a UNK community , intelligent intelligence , a UNK ? 
beam: Can you imagine an UNK population , UNK , UNK ? 

post: Bài thuyết trình nào bạn vỗ tay nhiều nhất trong sáng nay ?
response: Which presentation have you applauded the most this morning ?
infer: What &apos;s the UNK UNK in this morning ? 
beam: What &apos;s the best UNK in this morning ? 

post: Người bản địa , những con người khát khao . Đó là những người bạn đã vỗ tay tán thưởng .
response: Local , passionate people . That &apos;s who you have applauded .
infer: UNK , kids are hungry . That &apos;s UNK friends . 
beam: The UNK , the UNK . These are the ones you UNK the prize . 

post: Vậy nên cái mà tôi đang nói đến là Tinh Thần kinh doanh là nơi nó hiện hữu .
response: So what I &apos;m saying is that entrepreneurship is where it &apos;s at .
infer: So what I &apos;m talking about is that business is where it is . 
beam: So what I &apos;m talking about is that business is where it is . 

post: Chúng ta đang ở giai đoạn cuối cùng của cuộc cách mạng công nghiệp đầu tiên-- với những nguồn nhiên liệu &amp; amp ; nền sản xuất không thể tái tạo , và đột nhiện , chúng ta có những hệ thống không bền vững .
response: We are at the end of the first industrial revolution -- nonrenewable fossil fuels , manufacturing -- and all of a sudden , we have systems which are not sustainable .
infer: We are at the last stage of the first Industrial Revolution with the natural resources ; the UNK , the UNK , and the conflict , we have very UNK systems . 
beam: We are at the very end stage of the first Industrial Revolution with the natural material , UNK , UNK , we have UNK systems . 

post: Động cơ đốt trong không bền vững .
response: The internal combustion engine is not sustainable .
infer: UNK is in UNK . 
beam: The UNK UNK in UNK . 

post: Đường lối Freon để lưu trữ các thứ là không bền vững .
response: Freon way of maintaining things is not sustainable .
infer: The UNK lines to UNK things are UNK . 
beam: The way to UNK things are sustainable . 

post: Cái mà chúng ta phải nhìn đến đó là chúng ta làm thế nào để nuôi dưỡng , chữa trị , giáo dục , di chuyển và liên lạc cho 7 tỉ người theo hướng bền vững .
response: What we have to look at is at how we feed , cure , educate , transport , communicate for seven billion people in a sustainable way .
infer: What we have to look at is how do we secure , treatment , education , to move and communicate for seven billion people in sustainable ways . 
beam: Well , what we have to look at is how do you get nurturing , treat , education , trade and contacts for seven billion sustainable UNK . 

post: Không có công nghệ nào làm được điều đó .
response: The technologies do not exist to do that .
infer: There was no technology involved . 
beam: There was no technology involved . 

post: NGười nào sẽ sáng chế ra cái công nghệ cho cuộc cách mạng xanh ? Các trường đại học ư ? quên đi !
response: Who is going to invent the technology for the green revolution ? Universities ? Forget about it !
infer: How do you invent the technology of blue revolution ? UNK ? UNK ! 
beam: How do you figure up the technology of blue revolution ? UNK ? UNK ! 

post: Chính phủ ư ? Quên đi !
response: Government ? Forget about it !
infer: UNK ? Forget ! 
beam: UNK ? Forget ! 

post: Đó sẽ là các danh nhân , và họ đang thực hiện điều đó ngay hiện nay
response: It will be entrepreneurs , and they &apos;re doing it now .
infer: That would be the UNK , and they are doing it right now . 
beam: That would be the UNK , and they are doing it right now . 

post: Có một câu chuyện rất vui mà tôi đọc được trên một tờ tạp chí vị lai nhiều năm về trước
response: There &apos;s a lovely story that I read in a futurist magazine many , many years ago .
infer: There &apos;s a great story that I &apos;ve read in a magazine UNK years ago . 
beam: There was a great story that I was reading on a magazine UNK magazine years ago . 

post: Có một nhóm chuyên gia được mời đến để thảo luận về tương lai của thành phố New York năm 1860 .
response: There was a group of experts who were invited to discuss the future of the city of New York in 1860 .
infer: There &apos;s an expert invited to be invited to discuss the future of New York City UNK . 
beam: There &apos;s an expert getting invited to discuss the future of New York City UNK . 

post: Và trong năm 1860 , nhóm người ngày tụ họp lại , và phỏng đoán về điều sẻ xảy ra cho thành phố New York trong vòng 100 năm tới , và kết luận được nhất trí như sau : Thành phố New York sẽ không còn tồn tại trong vòng 100 năm tới .
response: And in 1860 , this group of people came together , and they all speculated about what would happen to the city of New York in 100 years , and the conclusion was unanimous : The city of New York would not exist in 100 years .
infer: And in UNK , the UNK group came together , and UNK about what was going to happen for New York City for 100 years , and the first conclusion was that the one in New York was not going to survive within 100 years . 
beam: And in UNK , the UNK group came together , and UNK about what was going to happen to urban City in the next 100 years , and to the front conclusion : New York won &apos;t survive for 100 years . 

post: Sao vậy ? Bởi vì họ nhìn vào đường cong trên phác đồ và nói , nếu dân số cứ phát triển theo tỉ lệ này , để di chuyển một lượng dân số của thành phố New York họ sẽ phải cần đến 6 triệu con ngựa , và chất thải từ 6 triệu con ngựa sẽ không có cách nào để xử lí .
response: Why ? Because they looked at the curve and said , if the population keeps growing at this rate , to move the population of New York around , they would have needed six million horses , and the manure created by six million horses would be impossible to deal with .
infer: And , because they look at the UNK UNK and say , if the population is growing in New York City , they must have to have six million horses , and from six million UNK , you have no way of going to do it that way , or
beam: And , because they look at the UNK UNK and say , if they look at the UNK UNK and say , if they look at the UNK UNK and say , if they look at the UNK UNK of New York City , they have to have to have

post: Họ sẽ bị ngập ngụa trong phân ngựa .
response: They were already drowning in manure .
infer: They &apos;d be UNK with UNK in the horse . 
beam: They &apos;d be UNK with UNK in the horse . 

post: Vậy nên vào năm 1860 , họ nhìn thấy cái công nghệ nhem nhuốc này cái mà làm cho cuộc sống ở thành phố New York ngộp thở .
response: So 1860 , they are seeing this dirty technology that is going to choke the life out of New York .
infer: So in UNK , they saw this UNK technology that makes life in New York City UNK . 
beam: So in UNK , they saw this UNK technology that makes life in New York City UNK . 

post: Vậy điều gì đã xảy ra ? Trong vòng 40 năm , tới thời điểm 1900 , tại Mỹ , có khoảng 1,001 công ty sản xuất xe hơi--1,001 .
response: So what happens ? In 40 years &apos; time , in the year 1900 , in the United States of America , there were 1,001 car manufacturing companies -- 1,001 .
infer: So what happened ? In the next 40 years time , up to time in the United States , there were UNK industrial makers . 
beam: So what happened ? In UNK years , up to time in the United States , there were UNK industrial makers . 

post: Cái ý tưởng tìm kiếm một công nghệ khác biệt đã hoàn toàn vượt lên trên tất cả và có những nhà máy rất nhỏ bé trong tình trạng trì trệ
response: The idea of finding a different technology had absolutely taken over , and there were tiny , tiny little factories in backwaters .
infer: This idea that UNK a different tool would never be gone on top of all , and had very little factories for UNK . 
beam: An idea for a different technology was totally UNK up on all , and there was very tiny factory with UNK . 

post: Dearborn , MIchigan . Henry Ford .
response: Dearborn , Michigan . Henry Ford .
infer: UNK , UNK . Henry Ford . 
beam: UNK , UNK . Henry Ford . 

post: Tuy nhiên , có một bí mật để làm việc với các doanh nhân .
response: However , there is a secret to work with entrepreneurs .
infer: However , there is a secret to work with entrepreneurs . 
beam: However , there is a secret to work with entrepreneurs . 

post: Trước tiên , bạn phải mang đến cho họ sự bảo mật
response: First , you have to offer them confidentiality .
infer: First , you have to bring them a secure . 
beam: First , you have to bring them a secure . 

post: Không thì họ sẽ chẳng tìm đến mà nói chuyện với bạn .
response: Otherwise they don &apos;t come and talk to you .
infer: Otherwise they would not have come come about it . 
beam: Otherwise they &apos;re not going to look at it . 

post: Sau đó bạn phải mang đến cho họ một dịch vụ tuyệt đối , riêng biệt và say mê .
response: Then you have to offer them absolute , dedicated , passionate service to them .
infer: Then you have to bring them a nice service , a different and fascinating service . 
beam: Then you have to bring them a nice service , private and exciting services . 

post: Và sau đó bạn phải nói với họ sự thật về kinh doanh .
response: And then you have to tell them the truth about entrepreneurship .
infer: And then you have to tell them the truth of UNK . 
beam: And then you have to tell them the truth of UNK . 

post: Công ty nhỏ nhất , công ty lớn nhất , phải có năng lực làm được 3 việc tuyệt vời sau : Cái sản phẩm bạn muốn bán phải hảo hạng , bạn phải có một chiến lược quảng bá hảo hạng , và bạn phải có một sự quản lí tài chính hảo hạng .
response: The smallest company , the biggest company , has to be capable of doing three things beautifully : The product that you want to sell has to be fantastic , you have to have fantastic marketing , and you have to have tremendous financial management .
infer: Number corporate companies , the largest company , has to be working three great , have to do three great things : the products you want to sell your click , you have to have a perfect UNK strategy , and you have to have a great financial governance .
beam: Number corporate companies , the largest company , had to do three great things , have to do three great things : the next product you want to sell , you have to have an UNK UNK strategy , and you have to have a great financial governance . 

post: Nghĩ thử xem nhé ?
response: Guess what ?
infer: Just think about this one ? 
beam: Think about this ? 

post: Chúng ta chưa bao giờ gặp một cá nhân nào trên thế giới , người mà vừa có thể làm ra , bán nó và quản lí tiền bạc cùng lúc .
response: We have never met a single human being in the world who can make it , sell it and look after the money .
infer: We have never met one of the individuals in the world who can make it , and sell it and have it at all . 
beam: We have never met one of individuals in the world who can make it , and sell it to UNK . 

post: Điều đó không tồn tại
response: It doesn &apos;t exist .
infer: That &apos;s not happening . 
beam: That doesn &apos;t exist . 

post: Nhân vật này chưa bao giờ được sinh ra .
response: This person has never been born .
infer: This object has never been born before . 
beam: This object has never happened before . 

post: Chúng tôi đã làm một nghiên cứu , và xem xét 100 công ty tiêu biểu trên thế giới Carnegie , Westinghouse , Edison , Ford , tất cả công ty mới , Google , Yahoo .
response: We &apos;ve done the research , and we have looked at the 100 iconic companies of the world -- Carnegie , Westinghouse , Edison , Ford , all the new companies , Google , Yahoo .
infer: We did a study , and we looked at 100 companies in UNK in the world , UNK , &apos; name , you name new companies , Google , Yahoo , Yahoo . 
beam: So we did a study , and we looked at 100 companies who were UNK in the world , UNK , Belshazzar , Ford , all new businesses , Google , Yahoo . 

post: Chỉ có một điều mà tất cả mọi công ty thành công trên thế giới đều có , chỉ một mà thôi đó là : Không một công ty nào bắt đầu chỉ với một người
response: There &apos;s only one thing that all the successful companies in the world have in common , only one : None were started by one person .
infer: One thing that all companies have success in the world are yes , one of them , one : no company , starting to one person . 
beam: One thing that all companies have success in the world are yes , one of them , one : no business , starting to one person . 

post: Hiện tại chúng tôi dạy về kinh doanh cho thiếu niên lứa tuổi 16 tại Northumberland , chúng tôi khởi đầu lớp học bằng cách đưa cho chúng hai tờ đầu tiên về tiểu sử của Richard Branson , và công việc cho những ở lứa tuổi 16 này là gạch dưới , trong 2 trang đầu tiên về tiểu sử của Richard Branson bao nhiêu lần Richard sử dụng từ &quot; Tôi &quot; và bao nhiêu lần ông sử dụng từ &quot; Chúng tôi . &quot;
response: Now we teach entrepreneurship to 16-year-olds in Northumberland , and we start the class by giving them the first two pages of Richard Branson &apos;s autobiography , and the task of the 16-year-olds is to underline , in the first two pages of Richard Branson &apos;s autobiography how many times Richard uses the word &quot; I &quot; and how many times he uses the word &quot; we . &quot;
infer: We start the UNK UNK history , and we started the UNK UNK for the UNK Richard UNK &apos;s UNK , and we started the first two pages of UNK UNK &apos;s UNK &apos;s UNK , how many UNK UNK UNK came from &quot; I &quot; and how many time
beam: We first started UNK by UNK UNK &apos;s UNK , and we started the first two pages of UNK UNK &apos;s UNK &apos;s UNK , how many UNK came from &quot; Me &quot; and how many times you use it from &quot; We . &quot; 

post: Không bao giờ có từ &quot; Tôi , và từ &quot; chúng ta &quot; có 32 lần
response: Never the word &quot; I , &quot; and the word &quot; we &quot; 32 times .
infer: Never ever UNK &quot; I , &quot; and &quot; we &quot; have 32 times . 
beam: Never ever word &quot; Me , &quot; and &quot; we &quot; have 32 times . 

post: Ông ấy không bắt đầu một mình .
response: He wasn &apos;t alone when he started .
infer: He didn &apos;t start a child . 
beam: He didn &apos;t start to begin alone . 

post: KHông ai khởi đầu một công ty một mình . Không ai cả .
response: Nobody started a company alone . No one .
infer: UNK who started a company . No one . 
beam: UNK who started a company . No one . 

post: Vậy nên chúng ta có thể tạo ra một cộng đồng nơi có những người hỗ trợ có kinh nghiệm nền tảng về hình thức kinh doanh quy mô nhỏ ngồi trong quán cà phê , quán rượu , và những anh bạn tận tuỵ của bạn người mà sẽ làm cho bạn những điều mà ai đó đã làm cho họ người nói về thiên hùng ca này người nào đó sẽ hỏi bạn , &quot; bạn cần gì ? &quot;
response: So we can create the community where we have facilitators who come from a small business background sitting in cafes , in bars , and your dedicated buddies who will do to you , what somebody did for this gentleman who talks about this epic , somebody who will say to you , &quot; What do you need ?
infer: So , we may create a community where there are UNK UNK who are based with a background for the UNK UNK for the UNK UNK for the UNK UNK in the UNK , in the wine , and your UNK friends and your friends for all of those people
beam: And so we can actually create a community where there are UNK people who have a background for the UNK knowledge for their UNK knowledge of businesses in the UNK , in the wine , and your friends for all of those things that have made people talk about this

post: Bạn có thể làm gì ? bạn làm được không ?
response: What can you do ? Can you make it ?
infer: What can you do ? You do it ? 
beam: What can you do ? You do it ? 

post: okay , bạn có thể bán nó không ? Bạn có thể quản lí tiền bạc không ?
response: Okay , can you sell it ? Can you look after the money ? &quot;
infer: Okay , could you sell it ? You can manage money ? 
beam: Okay , can you sell it ? You can manage money ? 

post: &quot; Oh , không , tôi không thể làm được điều này . &quot; Bạn có muốn tôi tìm ai khác cho bạn không ? &quot;
response: &quot; Oh , no , I cannot do this . &quot; &quot; Would you like me to find you somebody ? &quot;
infer: &quot; Oh , no , can I do this . &quot; Do you want me to find somebody else ? &quot; 
beam: &quot; Oh , no , can I do this . &quot; Do you want me to find somebody else ? &quot; 

post: Chúng tôi kích hoạt những cộng đồng .
response: We activate communities .
infer: We UNK communities . 
beam: We UNK communities . 

post: Chúng tôi có những nhóm tình nguyện viên trợ giúp cho Enterprise Facilitator họ giúp tìm kiếm những nguồn tài nguyên và con người và chúng tôi khám phá ra rằng cái phép lạ từ trí thông minh của người bản địa như cái gì đó giống như là bạn có thể thách thức nền văn hoá và kinh tế của cộng đồng này chỉ bằng cách nắm được cái khát vọng , nguồn năng lượng và trí tưởng tượng như thể của người dân của bạn
response: We have groups of volunteers supporting the Enterprise Facilitator to help you to find resources and people and we have discovered that the miracle of the intelligence of local people is such that you can change the culture and the economy of this community just by capturing the passion , the energy and imagination of your own people .
infer: We have UNK UNK , they &apos;re able to help UNK , and we discovered that UNK UNK of the human UNK and economies within this community is just by holding the UNK , the energy and imagination of the UNK as if you can challenge the culture and imagine
beam: And we discovered that this miracle from the human intelligence is something like that you can challenge the culture and the economic community in this community by holding the UNK , the energy energy and the imagination as if you can challenge the culture and the economic community that you

post: Cám ơn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Cho đến tháng ba , 2011 , tôi làm thợ chỉnh sửa ảnh tại thành phố New York .
response: Before March , 2011 , I was a photographic retoucher based in New York City .
infer: By Three to the third , 2011 , I made a vision UNK to look at New York City . 
beam: By Three to the third , 2011 , I made a vision UNK in New York City . 

post: Chúng tôi là những sinh vật xanh xao ,
response: We &apos;re pale , gray creatures .
infer: We were UNK green organisms . 
beam: We were UNK creatures . 

post: ẩn trong bóng tối căn phòng không cửa sổ , và nói chung là tránh ánh nắng mặt trời .
response: We hide in dark , windowless rooms , and generally avoid sunlight .
infer: It &apos;s in the dark in the window of room , which is in the UNK , and it &apos;s just UNK sun . 
beam: It &apos;s UNK in the dark rooms , and it &apos;s just UNK sun . 

post: Chúng tôi chỉnh cho người gầy gầy hơn , da đẹp càng đẹp hơn , biến điều không thể thành có thể , và luôn nhận được những chỉ trích trên báo chí , nhưng trong chúng tôi cũng có những nghệ sĩ tài năng với nhiều năm kinh nghiệm và hiểu biết thực thụ về hình ảnh và nhiếp ảnh .
response: We make skinny models skinnier , perfect skin more perfect , and the impossible possible , and we get criticized in the press all the time , but some of us are actually talented artists with years of experience and a real appreciation for images and photography .
infer: We UNK the thinner , and the more beautiful , UNK UNK , UNK the UNK , but in the literature , we also have artists with many of our experience and understanding that we can use visual . 
beam: We UNK the thinner , and the more beautiful , the more beautiful , the more beautiful , UNK UNK , the more beautiful , UNK UNK , UNK UNK , and UNK UNK . 

post: Vào tháng 11 năm 2011 , đang theo dõi tình hình thế giới tại nhà , tôi nhìn thấy các sự kiện bi thảm xảy ra tại Nhật Bản .
response: On March 11 , 2011 , I watched from home , as the rest of the world did , as the tragic events unfolded in Japan .
infer: In November 2011 , in the UNK of 2011 , watching the landscapes of the world at home , I saw catastrophic events happened in Japan . 
beam: In November 2011 , at the way of view of the world in the house , I saw catastrophic events happened in Japan . 

post: Sau đó , tổ chức tình nguyện tôi tham gia All Hands Volunteers , trong vài ngày đã đến hiện trường góp phần nỗ lực ứng phó .
response: Soon after , an organization I volunteer with , All Hands Volunteers , were on the ground , within days , working as part of the response efforts .
infer: And then , my volunteer over the UNK UNK came into the UNK UNK , which has been given a field of the UNK of the deal for the deal of the deal . 
beam: And then , my UNK volunteers in UNK UNK , over the past few days came to school for the UNK effort . 

post: Tôi , cùng hàng trăm tình nguyện viên hiểu rằng không thể chỉ ngồi yên tại nhà , nên tôi quyết định gia nhập cùng với họ trong suốt ba tuần .
response: I , along with hundreds of other volunteers , knew we couldn &apos;t just sit at home , so I decided to join them for three weeks .
infer: I , with hundreds of volunteers , couldn &apos;t keep standing at home , so I decided to join them for three weeks . 
beam: I , with hundreds of volunteers who know couldn &apos;t keep standing alone , so I decided to join them for three weeks . 

post: Vào ngày 13 tháng 5 , tôi tìm đường đến thị trấn Ōfunato .
response: On May the 13th , I made my way to the town of Ōfunato .
infer: On May UNK , I found out to the town of UNK . 
beam: On May UNK , I found out to the town of UNK . 

post: Đó là một làng chài nhỏ thuộc tỉnh Iwate , với dân số khoảng 50.000 người , một trong những nơi đầu tiên chịu ảnh hưởng bởi sóng thần .
response: It &apos;s a small fishing town in Iwate Prefecture , about 50,000 people , one of the first that was hit by the wave .
infer: It &apos;s a UNK village of UNK , with 600 people , one of the first places that is affected by the tsunami . 
beam: It &apos;s a UNK village of UNK , with a population of about 50,000 people , one of the first places that is affected by the tsunami . 

post: Mực nước ở đây được ghi nhận lại đạt đến hơn 24 mét , và đi hơn 3 dặm sâu trong đất liền .
response: The waters here have been recorded at reaching over 24 meters in height , and traveled over two miles inland .
infer: It &apos;s recorded in UNK , and it &apos;s UNK over three miles deeper in the land . 
beam: It &apos;s recorded here for more than 24 meters , and it &apos;s over three miles deeper in the land . 

post: Có thể hình dung , thị trấn đã bị tàn phá .
response: As you can imagine , the town had been devastated .
infer: UNK , the town was UNK . 
beam: UNK , the town was UNK . 

post: Chúng tôi kéo các mảnh vỡ từ kênh rãnh , hầm hố
response: We pulled debris from canals and ditches .
infer: We pull the UNK from the UNK , the UNK . 
beam: We pull the UNK from the UNK , the UNK . 

post: dọn dẹp trường học , vệ sinh nhà cửa , sẵn sàng cho việc đổi mới và phục hồi .
response: We cleaned schools . We de-mudded and gutted homes ready for renovation and rehabilitation .
infer: UNK up the school , UNK , are UNK for innovation and recovery . 
beam: UNK off the school , cleaning the homes , is ready for innovation and recovery . 

post: Chúng tôi dọn sạch hàng tấn xác cá mục nát và hôi thối từ nhà máy chế biến cá tại địa phương .
response: We cleared tons and tons of stinking , rotting fish carcasses from the local fish processing plant .
infer: We cleaned up tons of UNK and UNK and UNK from local plants . 
beam: We cleaned up tons of UNK , and UNK UNK from local plants . 

post: Chúng tôi lem luốc , nhưng ai cũng vui .
response: We got dirty , and we loved it .
infer: We UNK UNK , but we are also happy . 
beam: We UNK UNK , but we also do . 

post: Trong nhiều tuần , các tình nguyện viên và người dân địa phương cùng tìm kiếm một thứ .
response: For weeks , all the volunteers and locals alike had been finding similar things .
infer: For weeks , volunteers and local people were looking for a thing . 
beam: For weeks , volunteers and local people were looking for a thing . 

post: Họ tìm kiếm các bức ảnh và album ảnh và máy ảnh và thẻ SD .
response: They &apos;d been finding photos and photo albums and cameras and SD cards .
infer: They looked for images and UNK photos and UNK cards and UNK cards . 
beam: They find photos and UNK photos and UNK cards and UNK cards . 

post: Tất cả đều làm vậy .
response: And everyone was doing the same .
infer: All of this is all done . 
beam: That &apos;s all done . 

post: Họ đã thu thập và bàn giao chúng để bảo quản ở những nơi xung quanh các thị xã .
response: They were collecting them up , and handing them in to various places around the different towns for safekeeping .
infer: They &apos;ve been collecting and talking about them to park places around the UNK . 
beam: And they &apos;ve been collecting and talking to park in places around the markets . 

post: Không phải đến thời điểm ấy mà tôi mới nhận ra những tấm hình này đúng là một phần mất mát cá nhân rất lớn ở những người này .
response: Now , it wasn &apos;t until this point that I realized that these photos were such a huge part of the personal loss these people had felt .
infer: It wasn &apos;t until that moment that I realized that the UNK were a huge UNK of the individuals in these people . 
beam: It wasn &apos;t until that at the time that I realized that the drawings were actually a huge UNK of the big one of these people . 

post: Khi chạy trốn con sóng , để giữ lấy tính mạng , họ đã bỏ lại tất cả , Tất cả mọi thứ đều bị bỏ lại phía sau .
response: As they had run from the wave , and for their lives , absolutely everything they had , everything had to be left behind .
infer: When she UNK the one , they took everything off , and everything was UNK back to the side . 
beam: When she UNK the one , they took everything off , and everything was cut behind them . 

post: Vào cuối tuần đầu tiên ở đó , tôi đến giúp đỡ một trung tâm di tản ở thị trấn .
response: At the end of my first week there , I found myself helping out in an evacuation center in the town .
infer: On the weekend of the weekend , I went to help a UNK ceremony in the town . 
beam: On the weekend of my first weeks , I went to help a UNK ceremony in the town . 

post: Tôi giúp dọn suối nước nóng suối nước nóng công cộng , chiếc bồn tắm khổng lồ .
response: I was helping clean the onsen , the communal onsen , the huge giant bathtubs .
infer: I &apos;ve been able to break up the hot water UNK , UNK UNK . 
beam: I &apos;ve been able to break up the hot water UNK , UNK UNK . 

post: Nơi đây cũng là nơi mà trung tâm di tản đã thu thập các bức ảnh .
response: This happened to also be a place in the town where the evacuation center was collecting the photos .
infer: It &apos;s also where UNK UNK has collect pictures . 
beam: It &apos;s also the place where UNK has collected images . 

post: Đây là nơi người dân bàn giao chúng , và hôm đó tôi lấy làm vinh dự , vì họ tin tưởng tôi cho phép tôi giúp họ lau sạch các bức ảnh .
response: This is where people were handing them in , and I was honored that day that they actually trusted me to help them start hand-cleaning them .
infer: This is the people where people UNK them , and that day I UNK great , because they believed me to help them wipe away the pictures . 
beam: And this was a place where people were talking about UNK , and that day I was UNK , because they believed that I let them clean them apart . 

post: Thật xúc động và háo hức . Trước đó , tôi từng nghe nói phải nghĩ thoáng ra ngoài khuôn khổ , nhưng chỉ khi tôi thực sự trải nghiệm điều đó điều ký diệu mới xảy ra .
response: Now , it was emotional and it was inspiring , and I &apos;ve always heard about thinking outside the box , but it wasn &apos;t until I had actually gotten outside of my box that something happened .
infer: UNK and excited . I used to hear UNK , I heard about UNK , but when I was experiencing that new magic happened . 
beam: UNK and excited . Before that , I heard about it to think about UNK , but only if I actually experienced that new magic happened . 

post: Khi tôi nhìn qua các bức ảnh , có một số bức đã hơn một trăm năm tuổi , một số vẫn còn trong phong bì từ các phòng rửa ảnh . Tôi nghĩ , là một người chỉnh sửa ảnh tôi có thể sửa vết rách và vết trầy đó , và tôi biết , hàng trăm người khác cũng có thể làm được như vậy .
response: As I looked through the photos , there were some were over a hundred years old , some still in the envelope from the processing lab , I couldn &apos;t help but think as a retoucher that I could fix that tear and mend that scratch , and I knew hundreds of people who could do the same .
infer: I have a little bit more than a hundred years old , and some of them are still in the UNK UNK in the UNK , and I think , as a UNK , I can put on the cracks and the UNK UNK , and I know , hundreds
beam: I have a little bit more than a hundred years old , and some of them are still in the UNK UNK in the UNK , and I think , as an UNK , I can fix it , and that UNK , and I know , hundreds of other

post: Nên tối đó , tôi truy cập Facebook và hỏi một vài người , và đến sáng , tôi nhận được rất nhiều phản hồi tích cực , tôi biết phải bắt tay vào việc .
response: So that evening , I just reached out on Facebook and asked a few of them , and by morning the response had been so overwhelming and so positive , I knew we had to give it a go .
infer: So I went on , and I went on to Facebook and I asked some people , and in the morning , I got a lot of positive feedback stress , I knew I had to go into that . 
beam: So that night , I went on to Facebook and asked some people , and in the morning , I got a lot of positive feedback stress , and I knew I had to go on . 

post: Chúng tôi bắt đầu chỉnh sửa những tấm ảnh này .
response: So we started retouching photos .
infer: We started UNK this photograph . 
beam: We started UNK this photograph . 

post: Đây là tấm đầu tiên .
response: This was the very first .
infer: This is the first one . 
beam: This is the first one . 

post: Không bị hư hỏng trầm trọng , nhưng chỗ bị thấm nước khiến đổi màu khuôn mặt cô gái , phải được sửa chữa với độ chính xác và tinh vi cao .
response: Not terribly damaged , but where the water had caused that discoloration on the girl &apos;s face had to be repaired with such accuracy and delicacy .
infer: Not failing to severe loss , but UNK , UNK color UNK color , has to be treated with precision and UNK . 
beam: Not UNK damage , but for being UNK from the water &apos;s faces , have to be UNK with precision and UNK . 

post: Nếu không , bé gái trong hình sẽ không còn trông giống em nữa , và chắc chắn điều đó cũng tồi tệ như việc tấm ảnh bị hư hại vậy .
response: Otherwise , that little girl isn &apos;t going to look like that little girl anymore , and surely that &apos;s as tragic as having the photo damaged .
infer: Otherwise , the girl in his appearance would not look like another anymore , and for sure it was bad in the fact that the UNK had damage . 
beam: Otherwise , she &apos;s not going to look like Mom , and certainly it is as bad as being broken . 

post: Theo thời gian , rất may , nhiều hình ảnh được gừi về , , và cần thêm những người chỉnh sửa , do đó , một lần nữa , tôi đã lên Facebook và LinkedIn , trong vòng năm ngày , tôi tìm được 80 người muốn giúp từ 12 quốc gia khác nhau .
response: Over time , more photos came in , thankfully , and more retouchers were needed , and so I reached out again on Facebook and LinkedIn , and within five days , 80 people wanted to help from 12 different countries .
infer: UNK , a lot of UNK images came back , and we need some UNK , so , again , I &apos;ve been on Facebook and UNK , over the next five days , I find 80 people that have wanted to help from 12 countries . 
beam: UNK , a lot that got UNK , and it needs some UNK , so , again , I &apos;ve been on Facebook and UNK , over the next five days , I find 80 people that have wanted to help from 12 different countries . 

post: Trong vòng hai tuần , tôi đã có 150 người mong muốn tham gia .
response: Within two weeks , I had 150 people wanting to join in .
infer: Within two weeks , I had 150 people who wanted to join . 
beam: Within two weeks , I had 150 people who wanted to join . 

post: Tại Nhật , tới Tháng Bảy , chúng tôi đã mở rộng ra các thị trấn lân cận của Rikuzentakata , xa hơn về phía bắc đến thị trấn Yamada .
response: Within Japan , by July , we &apos;d branched out to the neighboring town of Rikuzentakata , further north to a town called Yamada .
infer: In Japan , in July , we &apos;ve expanded these UNK towns from UNK , far over to the north . 
beam: In Japan , over July , we expanded the UNK UNK towns of UNK , a little further north to the town . 

post: Mỗi tuần một lần , chúng tôi lắp đặt thiết bị scan của mình trong thư viện ảnh tạm thời đã thiết lập trước đó , để mọi người đến nhận lại những bức ảnh của mình .
response: Once a week , we would set up our scanning equipment in the temporary photo libraries that had been set up , where people were reclaiming their photos .
infer: Once we install our UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK UNK , so anyone gets to get back to their photos . 
beam: Once we install our own equipment in the UNK UNK UNK , so people to come back with their photos . 

post: Những phụ nữ lớn tuổi đôi khi chưa từng nhìn thấy máy scan , nhưng sau 10 phút , tìm bức ảnh bị mất của mình , đưa lại cho chúng tôi để scan , tải lên một máy chủ đám mây , để tải xuống bởi một gaijin , một người lạ , ở một nơi nào đó trên thế giới , và bắt đầu được chỉnh sửa .
response: The older ladies sometimes hadn &apos;t seen a scanner before , but within 10 minutes of them finding their lost photo , they could give it to us , have it scanned , uploaded to a cloud server , it would be downloaded by a gaijin , a stranger , somewhere on the other side of the globe , and it &apos;d start being fixed .
infer: UNK UNK when I saw a scanner , but after 10 minutes , finding a picture of UNK , to download down by one UNK , a stranger , somewhere in the world , and started UNK . 
beam: UNK UNK when I saw a scanner , but after 10 minutes , finding a picture of UNK , to download on one UNK , a stranger , anywhere in the world , and started UNK . 

post: Thời gian dành ra để khôi phục nguyên trạng là một câu chuyện hoàn toàn khác , và rõ ràng là phụ thuộc vào mức hư hại của bức ảnh .
response: The time it took , however , to get it back is a completely different story , and it depended obviously on the damage involved .
infer: The UNK time is an entirely different story , and it &apos;s clear dependent on the UNK of the imagery . 
beam: The UNK time is an entirely different story , and it &apos;s clearly dependent on the damage of that image . 

post: Có thể mất một giờ . Có thể mất cả tuần .
response: It could take an hour . It could take weeks .
infer: It might take an hour . It &apos;s UNK . 
beam: It might take an hour . It &apos;s UNK . 

post: Có thể mất đến hàng tháng .
response: It could take months .
infer: It could take months . 
beam: It could take months . 

post: Chiếc kimono trong bức ảnh này gần như phải được vẽ lại bằng tay , hoặc chắp ghép , từ các phần màu sắc và chi tiết còn lại chưa bị nước làm hư hại .
response: The kimono in this shot pretty much had to be hand-drawn , or pieced together , picking out the remaining parts of color and detail that the water hadn &apos;t damaged .
infer: This UNK in this picture is almost UNK , or UNK , from some colors and detail that remains UNK . 
beam: This UNK in this picture is almost UNK , or UNK , from some colors and detail that remains UNK . 

post: Nó rất tốn thời gian .
response: It was very time-consuming .
infer: It takes time . 
beam: It takes time . 

post: Bấy giờ , tất cả những hình ảnh này đã bị nước làm hư hại , bị nhấn chìm trong nước muối , bị bao phủ bởi vi khuẩn , trong nước thải , đôi khi cả trong dầu , suốt một quãng thời gian nên chúng sẽ tiếp tục thêm hư hại . Thế nên lau sạch chúng là một phần rất lớn của dự án .
response: Now , all these photos had been damaged by water , submerged in salt water , covered in bacteria , in sewage , sometimes even in oil , all of which over time is going to continue to damage them , so hand-cleaning them was a huge part of the project .
infer: UNK , all of these images have been UNK developed , UNK UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK , sometimes in oil , UNK , and UNK , and then clean them , so clean that &apos;s a very big part of the process . 
beam: Now , all of these shapes have been touched by UNK , UNK , UNK , sometimes in oil , UNK , and UNK , and they continue to continue more and more green , and it &apos;s a really big percentage of the project . 

post: Chúng tôi không thể chỉnh sửa nếu ảnh không được làm sạch , phơi khô và cải tạo .
response: We couldn &apos;t retouch the photo unless it was cleaned , dry and reclaimed .
infer: We can &apos;t fix fix if we can &apos;t get clean , dry and innovative . 
beam: We can &apos;t fix fix if we can &apos;t get clean , dry and innovative . 

post: Chúng tôi đã gặp may với việc lau ảnh bằng tay .
response: Now , we were lucky with our hand-cleaning .
infer: We had luck with UNK with UNK . 
beam: We were lucky with UNK . 

post: Có một người phụ nữ địa phương tuyệt vời đã hướng dẫn chúng tôi .
response: We had an amazing local woman who guided us .
infer: There was an amazing local woman who led us . 
beam: There was a great woman who led us . 

post: Rất dễ gây thêm hư hại cho những hình ảnh đã hư hại này .
response: It &apos;s very easy to do more damage to those damaged photos .
infer: It &apos;s very easy to do even green damage for these UNK images . 
beam: It &apos;s very easy for even UNK to these UNK images . 

post: Trưởng nhóm Wynne của tôi từng nói : Nó cũng giống như xăm cho ai đó .
response: As my team leader Wynne once said , it &apos;s like doing a tattoo on someone .
infer: My UNK UNK once said , it &apos;s like God for somebody else . 
beam: My UNK UNK once said , it &apos;s just like God for somebody else . 

post: Bạn không có cơ hội phạm sai lầm .
response: You don &apos;t get a chance to mess it up .
infer: You don &apos;t have UNK UNK . 
beam: You don &apos;t have UNK UNK . 

post: Người phụ nữ mang cho chúng tôi những tấm ảnh này đã gặp may , khi chúng có thể được phục hồi đến vậy .
response: The lady who brought us these photos was lucky , as far as the photos go .
infer: And the women brought us the photographs , when they could get their rehabilitation over . 
beam: And the women brought us the photographs , when they were able to recover . 

post: Cô ấy đã tự lau sạch chúng và dừng lại khi nhận ra mình đang làm nó bị hư hại nhiều hơn .
response: She had started hand-cleaning them herself and stopped when she realized she was doing more damage .
infer: She cleaned up clean , and it stopped it and it was UNK . 
beam: She cleaned up clean , and it stopped while he was making it further hurt . 

post: Cô cũng đã có bản sao của bức ảnh .
response: She also had duplicates .
infer: You have the copies of that image . 
beam: You have the copies of that image . 

post: Nếu không , những chỗ như chồng và khuôn mặt cô , sẽ không bao giờ có thể được khắc phục , chỉ có thể đặt họ gần nhau trong một bức ảnh lành khác , và làm lại toàn bộ bức hình .
response: Areas like her husband and her face , which otherwise would have been completely impossible to fix , we could just put them together in one good photo , and remake the whole photo .
infer: If you don &apos;t , open spaces like your husband and faces , they can never fully be able to be able to get UNK , but they can put them together in another UNK image and make the whole picture . 
beam: If you &apos;re not , open spaces like your husband and faces , there &apos;s never going to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able

post: Khi nhận lại các bức ảnh từ chúng tôi , cô ấy đã chia sẻ một chút câu chuyện của mình .
response: When she collected the photos from us , she shared a bit of her story with us .
infer: When we get back to the photos from us , she shared a little bit of their story . 
beam: When we get these photographs from us , she shared a little bit of their story . 

post: Những bức ảnh này được đồng nghiệp của chồng cô tìm thấy tại một sở cứu hoả , giữa các mảnh vỡ trên quãng đường dài kể từ nơi có căn nhà bị tàn phá , và họ đã nhận ra anh ta .
response: Her photos were found by her husband &apos;s colleagues at a local fire department in the debris a long way from where the home had once stood , and they &apos;d recognized him .
infer: These pictures have been UNK from her husband &apos;s UNK at a UNK , working on the UNK UNK from where the UNK is UNK , and they recognize him . 
beam: These pictures have been UNK from her husband &apos;s UNK at a UNK , working on the UNK , which is the UNK , and they recognize him . 

post: Ngày xảy ra sóng thần , anh chịu trách nhiệm đóng chặt cửa chắn sóng thần .
response: The day of the tsunami , he &apos;d actually been in charge of making sure the tsunami gates were closed .
infer: Once the tsunami is on a tsunami , he has a responsibility for impulse on the mental store . 
beam: Once the tsunami is on the tsunami , he has a responsibility for impulse on the mental store . 

post: Anh ấy phải đi về hướng dòng nước khi còi báo động vang lên .
response: He had to go towards the water as the sirens sounded .
infer: He had to go in to the UNK when the UNK UNK up . 
beam: And he had to go in the water when they UNK the UNK . 

post: Hai đứa con trai nhỏ , giờ không còn nhỏ nữa , hai đứa con trai của cô đều đang ở trường , hai trường khác nhau .
response: Her two little boys , not so little anymore , but her two boys were both at school , separate schools .
infer: Two little boys , that &apos;s no one young boy , two sons who are going out in school , two schools . 
beam: Two little boys , it &apos;s not a young boy , two sons who are at school , two schools . 

post: Một đứa bị kẹt trong dòng nước .
response: One of them got caught up in the water .
infer: One is stuck in the water . 
beam: The one is stuck in the water . 

post: Mất một tuần , cô mới tìm ra họ và biết được rằng tất cả họ đều đã sống sót .
response: It took her a week to find them all again and find out that they had all survived .
infer: UNK , a week , she found them and knew that they were all alive . 
beam: UNK a week , she found them and found that they were all alive . 

post: Ngày tôi trả lại hình cho cô ấy cũng là ngày của đứa con trai út của cô tròn 14 tuổi .
response: The day I gave her the photos also happened to be her youngest son &apos;s 14th birthday .
infer: And I was going to go back to her and she was the same day of her UNK &apos;s son &apos;s UNK . 
beam: The day I gave her would have been the same day of her UNK and was 14 years old . 

post: Đối với cô , sau hết mọi sự , những bức ảnh này là món quà hoàn hảo cho thằng bé , một cái gì đó nó có thể xem lại , để nhớ về quá khứ trước đây chưa bị nhuốm màu sợ hãi kể từ cái ngày Tháng Ba đó , khi toàn bộ cuộc sống bị đảo lộn hay bị phá huỷ .
response: For her , despite all of this , those photos were the perfect gift back to him , something he could look at again , something he remembered from before that wasn &apos;t still scarred from that day in March when absolutely everything else in his life had changed or been destroyed .
infer: For her , these pictures were the perfect gift for him , something that had to look at the past , and remember the past , when it was not yet been very afraid of the UNK that day , when the entire life was UNK or was destroyed .
beam: And for her , for whom all , these pictures were a perfect gift for him , something that it could look at , to remember , to remember the past . 

post: Sau sáu tháng tại Nhật bản , 1.100 tình nguyện viên đã tham gia tổ chức All Hands , trong đó , hàng trăm người đã tỉ mẩn lau sạch hơn 135.000 bức ảnh , phần lớn — — phần lớn số ảnh đã về lại với chủ nhân của mình , đây là điều hết sức quan trọng .
response: After six months in Japan , 1,100 volunteers had passed through All Hands , hundreds of whom had helped us hand-clean over 135,000 photographs , the large majority a large majority of which did actually find their home again , importantly .
infer: After the UNK of the UNK UNK UNK has joined the UNK UNK , which is the UNK — UNK that &apos;s already been UNK for its owner , which is important . 
beam: After six months in Japan , UNK UNK has joined the UNK UNK , in which hundreds of thousands have been UNK up the image , the vast quarter — UNK that UNK to our owner , which is important . 

post: Hơn năm trăm tình nguyện viên toàn cầu đã giúp trao trả cho hơn 90 gia đình , hàng trăm bức ảnh đã được hoàn toàn phục hồi và chỉnh sửa .
response: Over five hundred volunteers around the globe helped us get 90 families hundreds of photographs back , fully restored and retouched .
infer: Over hundreds of global volunteers , that &apos;s been able to give more than 90 families , hundreds of photographs have been completely UNK and UNK . 
beam: Over hundreds of global volunteers that have helped pay more than 90 families , hundreds of photos are completely UNK and UNK . 

post: Trong thời gian này , chúng tôi đã không chi quá một ngàn đô la cho thiết bị và vật liệu , Hầu hết chi phí là cho mực máy in .
response: During this time , we hadn &apos;t really spent more than about a thousand dollars in equipment and materials , most of which was printer inks .
infer: During this time , we didn &apos;t spend a thousand dollars for the device and materials , most than the cost of print . 
beam: During this time , we didn &apos;t spend a thousand dollars for the device and materials , most than the cost of print . 

post: Chúng tôi chụp ảnh liên tục .
response: We take photos constantly .
infer: We took a picture of continuous . 
beam: We took a picture of continuous . 

post: Mỗi bức ảnh gợi nhắc về ai đó hoặc một cái gì đó , một nơi , một mối quan hệ , một người thân yêu .
response: A photo is a reminder of someone or something , a place , a relationship , a loved one .
infer: Each image is about somebody or something , a place , a relationship , a loved person . 
beam: Each image reminds somebody else or something , a place , a relationship , a loved person . 

post: Chúng là những vật lưu giữ kỉ niệm và câu chuyện của chúng ta , là điều cuối cùng chúng ta còn bám víu lấy và cũng là thứ đầu tiên ta quay lại kiếm tìm .
response: They &apos;re our memory-keepers and our histories , the last thing we would grab and the first thing you &apos;d go back to look for .
infer: They are UNK UNK , and our stories , for the last thing we UNK -- we UNK -- and we are the first thing that we can look at . 
beam: They are UNK that held our memories and our stories , that &apos;s the last thing we UNK -- and it &apos;s the first thing we &apos;re looking for . 

post: Đó là ý nghĩa của toàn bộ dự án này , phục hồi những mảnh nhỏ của nhân loại , đem những kết nối trở lại cho ai đó .
response: That &apos;s all this project was about , about restoring those little bits of humanity , giving someone that connection back .
infer: That &apos;s the means of all this whole project , healing UNK of human UNK , bringing UNK connections to somebody . 
beam: That &apos;s the means of all this whole project , healing the small bits of humanity , bringing the connections back to somebody . 

post: Khi một bức ảnh như thế này được đem trả lại , nó sẽ tạo nên một biến đổi lớn lao trong cuộc sống của người nhận .
response: When a photo like this can be returned to someone like this , it makes a huge difference in the lives of the person receiving it .
infer: When a photo like this is back , it will make a huge difference in the lives of the people . 
beam: When a photo like this goes back , it will make a huge difference in people &apos;s lives . 

post: Dự án cũng tạo nên sự khác biệt lớn trong cuộc sống của những người sửa ảnh .
response: The project &apos;s also made a big difference in the lives of the retouchers .
infer: It also makes a difference about the lives of UNK . 
beam: It also makes a big difference in the lives of UNK . 

post: Đối với một số người , họ đã được kết nối với một điều gì đó lớn lao , cho đi một cái gì đó , dùng tài của mình cho một điều gì đó khác hơn là những người mẫu gầy gò và làn da mịn màng .
response: For some of them , it &apos;s given them a connection to something bigger , giving something back , using their talents on something other than skinny models and perfect skin .
infer: For some people , they &apos;ve been connected to something big , to something else , to be used to something other than some UNK and UNK . 
beam: For some people , they &apos;ve been connected to something UNK , to something else , to use their water to something other than some UNK and UNK . 

post: Tôi muốn đọc một email để kết thúc bài nói chuyện này . Email này từ Cindy , một người giúp sửa ảnh , gửi tôi ngày tôi trở về từ Nhật bản sau sáu tháng .
response: I would like to conclude by reading an email I got from one of them , Cindy , the day I finally got back from Japan after six months .
infer: I want to read an email to finish this talk . This UNK , one who UNK me , sent me to come back from Japan after six months . 
beam: I wanted to read an email to finish this talk . This UNK from UNK , who was helping me , sent me one day from Japan basically after six months . 

post: &quot; Khi làm việc , tôi không thể không nghĩ đến mỗi thân phận và những câu chuyện chứa đựng trong các bức ảnh .
response: &quot; As I worked , I couldn &apos;t help but think about the individuals and the stories represented in the images .
infer: &quot; When work , I can &apos;t help myself think of any UNK and the stories that contain in images . 
beam: &quot; When I work , I can &apos;t help myself think of any UNK and the stories that contain in images . 

post: Có một bức ảnh nọ , chụp nhiều thế hệ phụ nữ trong nhà , từ già đến trẻ , quây quần xung quanh một em bé , đã đánh động lòng tôi vì nhà tôi cũng có một bức ảnh tương tự , bà ngoại , mẹ tôi , tôi , và đứa con gái mới sinh , tấm ảnh treo trên tường nhà .
response: One in particular , a photo of women of all ages , from grandmother to little girl , gathered around a baby , struck a chord , because a similar photo from my family , my grandmother and mother , myself , and newborn daughter , hangs on our wall .
infer: There was a photo , a little UNK , a little bit of women in homes , from the young children , UNK , and there was a similar picture , my mom , my mother , me , and the daughter was born , a picture of a wall
beam: There was a photo , a lot of young women in homes , from old children to children , who had laid on me because I had a similar picture , my grandmother , my mother , me , and the daughter was born , a picture on the wall

post: Bên kia địa cầu , cho dù ở thời đại nào , nhu cầu cơ bản của chúng ta là như nhau , đúng không ? &quot;
response: Across the globe , throughout the ages , our basic needs are just the same , aren &apos;t they ? &quot;
infer: On the side of the globe , for our basic UNK , we &apos;re the same , right ? 
beam: On the side of the globe , for even some time , our basic need are the same , right ? &quot; 

post: Cảm ơn các bạn .
response: Thank you .
infer: Thank you . 
beam: Thank you . 

post: Tôi ở độ sâu gần 50m dưới 1 hầm mỏ bất hợp pháp tại Ghana .
response: I &apos;m 150 feet down an illegal mine shaft in Ghana .
infer: I was down the UNK under a UNK UNK in Ghana . 
beam: I was down the UNK under a UNK UNK in Ghana . 

post: Không khí đặc quánh bụi và hơi nóng , và rất khó thở .
response: The air is thick with heat and dust , and it &apos;s hard to breathe .
infer: It was UNK heating and heat , and it was hard to breathe . 
beam: It was UNK heating , and it was very hard to breathe . 

post: Tôi có thể cảm nhận sự va chạm từ những thân thể bóng nhẫy mồ hôi lướt qua trong bóng tối , nhưng chẳng thể thấy gì hơn .
response: I can feel the brush of sweaty bodies passing me in the darkness , but I can &apos;t see much else .
infer: I can feel the touch of the UNK UNK UNK and UNK through the dark , but there &apos;s nothing much less to see . 
beam: I would feel the touch of the UNK possible UNK through the dark , but couldn &apos;t see it much more . 

post: Tôi nghe tiếng nói , nhưng gần như cả hầm là sự pha trộn của tiếng ho và tiếng đá bị đập vỡ bằng những công cụ thô sơ .
response: I hear voices talking , but mostly the shaft is this cacophony of men coughing , and stone being broken with primitive tools .
infer: I heard speak , but close to a whole UNK mix of UNK and UNK ice , UNK tools . 
beam: I heard speak , but a little bit of a UNK and a UNK UNK with primitive tools . 

post: Như mọi người , tôi đeo 1 chiếc đèn pin lập loè rẻ tiền trên đầu , nó được gắn vào chiếc vòng cao su cũ kỹ , tôi hầu như không thể nhìn ra những thân cây bóng nhẫy đang chống đỡ những bức tường của cái hố rộng 0.28 m2 sâu hàng trăm feet xuống lòng đất .
response: Like the others , I wear a flickering , cheap flashlight tied to my head with this elastic , tattered band , and I can barely make out the slick tree limbs holding up the walls of the three-foot square hole dropping hundreds of feet into the earth .
infer: As people , I took a UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK , which is UNK in UNK UNK , and I can barely see the UNK UNK UNK against the walls of the UNK UNK UNK that you might hundreds of feet down to the ground . 
beam: As people , I took a UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK , which is UNK in UNK UNK , and I can barely see the UNK UNK &apos;s walls are against the walls of the UNK UNK UNK back to the ground . 

post: Khi trượt tay , tôi bất thần nhớ lại người thợ mỏ mới gặp vài ngày trước đã bị trượt tay ngã rơi mất hút xuống cái hầm đó .
response: When my hand slips , I suddenly remember a miner I had met days before who had lost his grip and fell countless feet down that shaft .
infer: At the UNK , I UNK UNK and UNK having fallen fallen into the UNK . 
beam: When I UNK my hand , I didn &apos;t remember the UNK , who &apos;d seen a few days ago before the UNK fell lost . 

post: Khi tôi nói chuyện với bạn hôm nay , những người này vẫn đang ở sâu trong cái hố đó , liều mạng sống mà không có lương hay thù lao , và thường là sẽ chết .
response: As I stand talking to you today , these men are still deep in that hole , risking their lives without payment or compensation , and often dying .
infer: When I talk to you today , these people are still in that hole , the spinal cord without a UNK or the end , and often it is going to die . 
beam: Now , when I talk to you today , these people are still embedded in that hole , risk of life without UNK or UNK , and usually . 

post: Tôi được leo ra khỏi cái hố đó , và được về nhà , nhưng họ có lẽ sẽ chẳng bao giờ được về nhà , vì đã mắc vào bẫy nô lệ .
response: I got to climb out of that hole , and I got to go home , but they likely never will , because they &apos;re trapped in slavery .
infer: I was UNK out of that hole , and it was home , but they would never get home because it was in UNK . 
beam: I was UNK out of that hole , and went home , but they would never be home , because it was about UNK . 

post: Trong 28 năm qua , tôi thu thập tài liệu về văn hoá địa phương ở hơn 70 quốc gia trên 6 lục địa , và năm 2009 tôi đã có vinh dự trở thành người triển lãm duy nhất tại Hội nghị thượng đỉnh về hoà bình tại Vancouver .
response: For the last 28 years , I &apos;ve been documenting indigenous cultures in more than 70 countries on six continents , and in 2009 I had the great honor of being the sole exhibitor at the Vancouver Peace Summit .
infer: Over the last 28 years , I &apos;ve been UNK public literature in over 70 countries over the course of over the UNK , and in 2009 , I was the UNK to be the only UNK festival at a Vancouver UNK on Vancouver UNK . 
beam: Over the last 28 years , I &apos;ve been UNK public literature in over 70 countries over the course of six continents , and in 2009 I had the privilege to be the only UNK festival at Vancouver UNK . 

post: Trong số những người tài năng đáng kinh ngạc tôi gặp ở đó , Tôi gặp 1 người ủng hộ cho chiến dịch Giải phóng Nô lệ , một thành viên của NGO tận tâm tiêu diệt tận gốc nạn nô lệ hiện đại .
response: Amongst all the astonishing people I met there , I met a supporter of Free the Slaves , an NGO dedicated to eradicating modern day slavery .
infer: Among the incredible UNK I met there , I met an UNK for the UNK UNK , as the university agent to death to kill the presidential Main slavery . 
beam: Among the most incredible UNK people I met there , I met an UNK for UNK UNK , which was a member of a Swedish soldier dedicated to death for modern slavery . 

post: Chúng tôi bắt đầu nói về nô lệ , và thực sự , tôi bắt đầu tìm hiểu về nô lệ vì tôi đã biết chắc rằng nó tồn tại trên thế giới , nhưng không đến mức đó .
response: We started talking about slavery , and really , I started learning about slavery , for I had certainly known it existed in the world , but not to such a degree .
infer: We started talking about slave , and frankly , I started to get a UNK , because I knew that it exists in the world , but not that extent . 
beam: And we started talking about slave , and frankly , I started digging out the UNK , because I knew that it exists in the world , but not that extent . 

post: Sau cuộc nói chuyện , tôi thấy thật kinh khủng và thực sự xấu hổ vì thiếu hiểu biết về sự tàn ác này trong đời mình , và tôi nghĩ , nếu cả tôi cũng không biết , thì bao nhiêu người sẽ không biết ?
response: After we finished talking , I felt so horrible and honestly ashamed at my own lack of knowledge of this atrocity in my own lifetime , and I thought , if I don &apos;t know , how many other people don &apos;t know ?
infer: And after the talk , I saw real and really embarrassed because ignorance knew of the UNK of this evil UNK in my life , and I thought , even if I don &apos;t know , how many people don &apos;t know ? 
beam: And after the talk , I saw real awful and I was really embarrassed because ignorance for this UNK in my life , and I thought , even if I didn &apos;t know , how many would you know ? 

post: Nó bắt đầu đục khoét tâm can , nên vài tuần sau , Tôi bay tới Los Angles để gặp giám đốc chương trình Giải phóng Nô lệ và đề nghị giúp họ .
response: It started burning a hole in my stomach , so within weeks , I flew down to Los Angeles to meet with the director of Free the Slaves and offer them my help .
infer: It began UNK the UNK , so a couple of weeks later , I flew to Los Angeles to meet the UNK Court Board and asked them to help me . 
beam: It began UNK the UNK , so a couple of weeks later , I flew up to Los Angeles to meet the UNK Court Board and asked them . 

post: Và từ đó bắt đầu cuộc hành trình tiến vào thế giới nô lệ hiện đại
response: Thus began my journey into modern day slavery .
infer: And slowly , it began the evolution in the modern slavery . 
beam: And slowly , it began the evolution in the modern slavery . 

post: Kì lạ là trước đây tôi đã đến phần lớn những nơi này .
response: Oddly , I had been to many of these places before .
infer: UNK enough , I &apos;ve been to a big part of this work . 
beam: It &apos;s strange that I &apos;ve been here today . 

post: Một số nơi tôi coi như nhà mình .
response: Some I even considered like my second home .
infer: Some places I refer to home . 
beam: Some places I refer to home . 

post: Nhưng lần này , tôi muốn thấy sự thật đang được che đậy
response: But this time , I would see the skeletons hidden in the closet .
infer: But this time , I want to see the truth that are UNK . 
beam: But this time , I want to see the truth that are UNK . 

post: Một sự ước lượng dè dặt cho chúng tôi biết có hơn 27 triệu người bị biến thành nô lệ trên thế giới ngày nay .
response: A conservative estimate tells us there are more than 27 million people enslaved in the world today .
infer: A UNK UNK for us to know that there are over 27 million people being UNK in the world today . 
beam: We know that over 27 million people are being UNK in the world today . 

post: Gấp đôi số người bị đưa khỏi Châu Phi trong suốt thời kì mua bán nô lệ xuyên Đại Tây Dương .
response: That &apos;s double the amount of people taken from Africa during the entire trans-Atlantic slave trade .
infer: That &apos;s twice the number of people who get UNK from Africa during the UNK trade . 
beam: That &apos;s twice the number of people who are taken out of Africa during purchasing UNK . 

post: 150 năm trước , 1 nông nô có giá gấp 3 lần thu nhập cả năm của 1 công nhân Mỹ .
response: A hundred and fifty years ago , an agricultural slave cost about three times the annual salary of an American worker .
infer: 150 years ago , a UNK was twice three times the size of the U.S. UNK . 
beam: 150 years ago , one UNK was twice three times the size of the U.S. UNK . 

post: Tương đương với 50.000 đô-la Mỹ ngày nay .
response: That equates to about $ 50,000 in today &apos;s money .
infer: That &apos;s what compared to 50,000 U.S. dollars today . 
beam: That &apos;s what compared to 50,000 U.S. dollars today . 

post: Nhưng ngày nay , nhiều thế hệ gia đình bị bắt làm nô lệ qua nhiều thế hệ chỉ với món nợ 18 đô-la .
response: Yet today , entire families can be enslaved for generations over a debt as small as $ 18 .
infer: But today , a lot of families have been UNK through generations just for UNK debt . 
beam: But today , a lot of families have been UNK across generations just for UNK debt . 

post: Thật kinh ngạc , chế độ nô lệ tạo ra lợi nhuận hơn 13 tỉ đô-la mỗi năm trên toàn thế giới .
response: Astonishingly , slavery generates profits of more than $ 13 billion worldwide each year .
infer: So it &apos;s amazing , UNK slavery produced more than 13 billion a year worldwide . 
beam: So it &apos;s amazing , UNK slavery produced more than 13 billion a year worldwide . 

post: Rất nhiều người bị lừa bởi những lời hứa điêu ngoa về giáo dục tốt , công việc tốt hơn , chỉ để thấy mình bị bắt làm việc không công dưới ách bạo lực , và không thoát ra được .
response: Many have been tricked by false promises of a good education , a better job , only to find that they &apos;re forced to work without pay under the threat of violence , and they cannot walk away .
infer: A lot of people are fooled by UNK promises of education , better jobs , just to see themselves doing less UNK under violence , and not getting out of it . 
beam: A lot of people are UNK by UNK promises of education , better jobs , just to see themselves working on UNK of violence , and not escape . 

post: Nô lệ ngày nay phục vụ cho thương mại , hàng hoá mà người nô lệ tạo ra có giá trị , nhưng người tạo ra chúng bị coi như phế thải .
response: Today &apos;s slavery is about commerce , so the goods that enslaved people produce have value , but the people producing them are disposable .
infer: The fact that today , UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK , but they are now UNK as UNK . 
beam: It &apos;s today for trade today , which is the UNK who produces UNK value , but they are UNK as UNK . 

post: Nạn nô lệ hiện hữu gần như mọi nơi trên thế giới , dù nó là bất hợp pháp ở mọi nơi .
response: Slavery exists everywhere , nearly , in the world , and yet it is illegal everywhere in the world .
infer: It has the slaves to have the amount of UNK , almost everywhere in the world , even though it &apos;s all UNK . 
beam: It has almost limited slavery to be almost everywhere in the world , whether it &apos;s illegal everywhere . 

post: Ở Ấn Độ và Nepal , tôi được đưa tới 1 lò gạch .
response: In India and Nepal , I was introduced to the brick kilns .
infer: In India and in Nepal , I was sent to a brick . 
beam: In India and in Nepal , I was sent to a brick . 

post: Khung cảnh lạ lẫm đẹp mắt này giống như đi vào thế giới Ai Cập cổ hoặc Hầm ngục của Dante .
response: This strange and awesome sight was like walking into ancient Egypt or Dante &apos;s Inferno .
infer: This UNK landscape is like going into the Egyptian play or UNK . 
beam: This UNK landscape looks like UNK in the Egyptian Egyptian or UNK . 

post: Bị bao bọc trong nhiệt độ hơn 54 độ C , đàn ông , phụ nữ , trẻ em , toàn bộ các gia đình , bị trùm trong màn bụi mịt mù , làm như máy , xếp gạch lên đầu , tới 18 viên mỗi lần , và mang chúng từ những lò nung bỏng rát tới những chiếc xe tải ở cách đó hàng trăm mét .
response: Enveloped in temperatures of 130 degrees , men , women , children , entire families in fact , were cloaked in a heavy blanket of dust , while mechanically stacking bricks on their head , up to 18 at a time , and carrying them from the scorching kilns to trucks hundreds of yards away .
infer: UNK , the whole UNK , the whole family , the whole family , the whole UNK , the whole UNK , the whole UNK , the UNK , to 18 yards a little bit , and gives it out of UNK , UNK UNK to UNK truck that they
beam: UNK , the whole of the family , the UNK , the children , the children , the children , the whole families , the whole family , the UNK , the children , the whole family , the UNK , the UNK , to the UNK . 

post: Đờ đẫn bởi sự đơn điệu và kiệt sức , họ câm lặng làm việc , lặp đi lặp lại tới 16 hay 17 giờ mỗi ngày .
response: Deadened by monotony and exhaustion , they work silently , doing this task over and over for 16 or 17 hours a day .
infer: UNK UNK , because of the UNK and the UNK , they shut up and UNK and UNK and 17 hours a day . 
beam: UNK UNK due to their UNK and UNK , and they shut up and UNK up to 16 or 17 hours a day . 

post: Không có đồ ăn , giờ nghỉ để ăn uống , do bị mất nước nghiêm trọng nên việc đi tiểu trở nên tầm thường
response: There were no breaks for food , no water breaks , and the severe dehydration made urinating pretty much inconsequential .
infer: No food , no retirement , will be UNK , because it &apos;s no longer to move on the misery of the misery . 
beam: No food , no retirement , will be UNK , because it &apos;s no longer to deal with UNK . 

post: Nóng và bụi lan toả khắp nơi đến nỗi camera của tôi bị nóng đến mức không thể chạm vào nút ngừng quay .
response: So pervasive was the heat and the dust that my camera became too hot to even touch and ceased working .
infer: UNK and the oxygen UNK mine to my camera to couldn &apos;t hit the wheel . 
beam: UNK and the oxygen UNK all over my camera to couldn &apos;t hit the wheel . 

post: Cứ 20 phút , tôi phải chạy trở lại xe dã chiến để lau thiết bị và để chúng hoạt động dưới điều hoà nhiệt độ phục hồi chúng , và khi ngồi đó , Tôi nghĩ , cái camera của mình còn được đối xử tốt hơn nhiều những người kia .
response: Every 20 minutes , I &apos;d have to run back to our cruiser to clean out my gear and run it under an air conditioner to revive it , and as I sat there , I thought , my camera is getting far better treatment than these people .
infer: So , for 20 minutes , I have to go back to the UNK truck to prepare the equipment and to UNK the equipment , and to make them under the heat , and the core temperature , I think , my camera is also going to do better than
beam: So , for 20 minutes , I have to go back to the UNK truck to prepare the equipment , and to make these animals under the thermal UNK , and when I sit there , I think , my camera also has to do better than those . 

post: Quay lại lò gạch , tôi chỉ muốn khóc , nhưng người bản theo chủ nghĩa bãi nô bên cạnh nhanh chóng nắm lấy tôi và nói , &quot; Lisa , đừng làm thế . Đừng làm thế ở đây . &quot;
response: Back in the kilns , I wanted to cry , but the abolitionist next to me quickly grabbed me and he said , &quot; Lisa , don &apos;t do that . Just don &apos;t do that here . &quot;
infer: UNK to the UNK , I just wanted to cry , but I &apos;d like to just cry , but I &apos;d like to UNK over and I would go and say , &quot; Ha , don &apos;t do that . Don &apos;t do this here . &quot; 
beam: UNK to the UNK , I just wanted to cry , but I &apos;d like to just cry , but I &apos;d like to UNK and say , &quot; Please , don &apos;t do that . Don &apos;t do that here . &quot; 

post: Ông giải thích rất rõ rằng thể hiện cảm xúc là rất nguy hiểm ở nơi như thế này , không phải với tôi , mà với họ .
response: And he very clearly explained to me that emotional displays are very dangerous in a place like this , not just for me , but for them .
infer: He explained it very well to express being a very dangerous place in a place like this , not to me , but with them . 
beam: He explained it very well to express being a very dangerous being in place like this , not to me , to me . 

post: Tôi đã không thể trực tiếp giúp gì cho họ .
response: I couldn &apos;t offer them any direct help .
infer: I couldn &apos;t directly help for them . 
beam: I couldn &apos;t directly help for them . 

post: Tôi chẳng cho họ tiền được , không gì cả .
response: I couldn &apos;t give them money , nothing .
infer: I didn &apos;t give them money , nothing . 
beam: I didn &apos;t give them money , nothing . 

post: Tôi không phải công dân nước đó .
response: I wasn &apos;t a citizen of that country .
infer: I &apos;m not the top of the country . 
beam: I am not the top of the country . 

post: Tôi có thể đưa họ vào tình cảnh tệ hơn hiện tại của họ .
response: I could get them in a worse situation than they were already in .
infer: I can get them into the situation worse than their present . 
beam: I can get them into the situation worse than their present . 

post: Tôi phải dựa vào tổ chức Giải phóng Nô lệ để hoạt động trong hệ thống để giải phóng họ , và tôi tin họ có thể .
response: I &apos;d have to rely on Free the Slaves to work within the system for their liberation , and I trusted that they would .
infer: I had to rely on the UNK UNK UNK to get them , and I believe they could . 
beam: I have to rely on the UNK UNK UNK to get them , and I believe they can . 

post: Với tôi , phải đợi về đến tận nhà để thật sự cảm nhận nỗi đau .
response: As for me , I &apos;d have to wait until I got home to really feel my heartbreak .
infer: For me , it was to wait until the home to really feel pain . 
beam: For me , it has to wait until the home to really feel pain . 

post: Ở dãy Himalayas , tôi thấy trẻ em vác đá qua nhiều dặm địa hình núi xuống xe tải đang chờ ở con đường phía dưới .
response: In the Himalayas , I found children carrying stone for miles down mountainous terrain to trucks waiting at roads below .
infer: In the Himalayas , I see the kids UNK from more UNK of UNK on the van and are waiting in the lower truck . 
beam: In the Himalayas , I see the kids UNK from more UNK of UNK in the van as waiting as they &apos;re in the lower . 

post: Những tấm đá phiến to còn nặng hơn những đứa trẻ mang chúng , đám trẻ nhấc bổng chúng lên bằng đầu sử dụng bộ khung từ que gỗ , dây thừng và vải rách .
response: The big sheets of slate were heavier than the children carrying them , and the kids hoisted them from their heads using these handmade harnesses of sticks and rope and torn cloth .
infer: UNK UNK ones are more heavy than the children that take them , the children lifted them up by the UNK of UNK UNK &apos;s UNK , rope , UNK . 
beam: The UNK UNK were more valuable than the ones that take them , the children lifted their UNK on the start using UNK , UNK , UNK . 

post: Chứng kiến những chuyện quá sức như thế thật nặng nề .
response: It &apos;s difficult to witness something so overwhelming .
infer: It was so severe , that could be so severe . 
beam: UNK is so tough . 

post: Làm sao chúng ta có thể tạo ra điều quỷ quyệt này , lại còn xảy tràn làn như thế ?
response: How can we affect something so insidious , yet so pervasive ?
infer: How can we create this UNK thing , what about a moment ? 
beam: How can we create this evil UNK thing ? 

post: Một số người thậm chí không biết mình bị biến thành nô lệ , họ làm việc không công 16 , 17 giờ mỗi ngày , vì suốt đời họ chỉ biết thế .
response: Some don &apos;t even know they &apos;re enslaved , people working 16 , 17 hours a day without any pay , because this has been the case all their lives .
infer: Some people don &apos;t even know they &apos;re UNK , they &apos;re not going to work , 17 hours per day , because their whole life is only aware of that . 
beam: Some people don &apos;t even know that they &apos;re UNK , they &apos;re UNK , 17 hours a day , because their whole life is aware of that . 

post: Họ không có gì để so sánh .
response: They have nothing to compare it to .
infer: They &apos;re not going to be able to compare . 
beam: They don &apos;t have anything to UNK . 

post: Khi người dân làng này đòi tự do , những chủ nô đốt sạch nhà của họ .
response: When these villagers claimed their freedom , the slaveholders burned down all of their houses .
infer: When this farmer took freedom , their UNK UNK . 
beam: When people were free for free , their own UNK were UNK . 

post: Những người này không có gì , họ chết điếng , họ muốn đầu hàng , nhưng người phụ nữ ở giữa trấn tĩnh và kêu gọi mọi người kiên trì , và những người theo chủ nghĩa bãi nô tại hiện trường giúp họ lấy được hợp đồng cho thuê mỏ đá của chính mình , để giờ đây họ vẫn làm công việc gãy lưng ấy , nhưng làm cho chính họ , và được trả công , và họ làm trong tự do .
response: I mean , these people had nothing , and they were so petrified , they wanted to give up , but the woman in the center rallied for them to persevere , and abolitionists on the ground helped them get a quarry lease of their own , so that now they do the same back-breaking work , but they do it for themselves , and they get paid for it , and they do it in freedom .
infer: UNK people will be UNK , and women are UNK , and they &apos;re UNK , and they &apos;re UNK to their own UNK , so they &apos;re working on she UNK down , but they &apos;re going to get them , and they &apos;re paid , and they &apos;re
beam: They are UNK , they &apos;re UNK , they &apos;re going to get a UNK , and they &apos;re UNK , and they &apos;re UNK to their own UNK , so they &apos;re UNK their back down , but they &apos;re going to work with them , but they &apos;re

post: Ta thường nghĩ về buôn bán nô lệ tình dục khi nghe thấy từ &quot; nô lệ &quot; , và do sự nhận thức chung này , tôi được cảnh báo sẽ rất khó để làm việc an toàn trong ngành công nghiệp đặc thù này .
response: Sex trafficking is what we often think of when we hear the word slavery , and because of this worldwide awareness , I was warned that it would be difficult for me to work safely within this particular industry .
infer: We often think of sex slavery when we hear the word &quot; slavery , and therefore therefore , the UNK , I &apos;m very difficult to the UNK of the industry , of course , of the UNK industry . 
beam: We often think of sex slavery when we hear the word &quot; UNK , &quot; and therefore , in this collective sense , I &apos;m very difficult to work safe in this UNK industry . 

post: Ở Kathmandu , tôi được hộ tống bởi những người phụ nữ đã từng là nô lệ tình dục .
response: In Kathmandu , I was escorted by women who had previously been sex slaves themselves .
infer: In UNK , I was UNK by the women who were UNK . 
beam: In UNK , I was UNK by the women who were UNK . 

post: Họ dẫn tôi xuống những bậc cầu thang hẹp xuống tầng hầm bẩn thỉu , trong ánh sáng lờ mờ .
response: They ushered me down a narrow set of stairs that led to this dirty , dimly fluorescent lit basement .
infer: So they took me down to UNK UNK to the UNK , in the light UNK . 
beam: So they took me down to UNK UNK to the UNK . 

post: Nơi đây thực chất không phải nhà thổ .
response: This wasn &apos;t a brothel , per se .
infer: It &apos;s actually not home . 
beam: It &apos;s actually not home . 

post: Nó giống 1 nhà hàng hơn .
response: It was more like a restaurant .
infer: It &apos;s more like a restaurant . 
beam: It was more like a restaurant . 

post: Những nhà hàng phân buồng , như được biết đến trong ngành , là những địa điểm của nạn mại dâm cưỡng ép .
response: Cabin restaurants , as they &apos;re known in the trade , are venues for forced prostitution .
infer: UNK , as it may know , is the location of UNK UNK . 
beam: The UNK , as they know in the industry , are UNK of UNK . 

post: Mỗi nơi có phòng riêng nhỏ , nơi các nô lệ , phụ nữ , cùng trẻ em trai và gái , một số mới 7 tuổi , bị buộc giải khuây cho khách hàng , dụ họ mua thêm rượu và đồ ăn .
response: Each has small , private rooms , where the slaves , women , along with young girls and boys , some as young as seven years old , are forced to entertain the clients , encouraging them to buy more food and alcohol .
infer: Every time has a small room , where the UNK and women , the women and the girls , the UNK few ages , were UNK to the customers , and the UNK and the food . 
beam: Every time has a small room , where the UNK and women , the women and the girls , the ages of seven , are UNK to consumers , and they buy more wine and food . 

post: phòng ngủ nào cũng bẩn thỉu và tối om , được nhận ra bởi con số sơn trên tường phân cách bởi miếng ván ép và rèm che .
response: Each cubicle is dark and dingy , identified with a painted number on the wall , and partitioned by plywood and a curtain .
infer: UNK are UNK , and dark , they &apos;re detected by the paint on the walls of the UNK and the UNK . 
beam: UNK are UNK every single thing , and dark , being recognized by the paint on the wall of the UNK and the UNK . 

post: Người làm ở đây thường phải chịu lạm dụng tình dục thê thảm dưới bàn tay khách hàng .
response: The workers here often endure tragic sexual abuse at the hands of their customers .
infer: The man who &apos;s been doing it extraordinary UNK UNK in UNK UNK in the hands . 
beam: This man here is often suffering in UNK UNK in the hands of customers . 

post: Đứng trong góc tối gần đó , tôi nhớ cảm giác nỗi sợ bùng lên , và giây phút đó , tôi mới hiểu được bị giam trong địa ngục đó là như thế nào .
response: Standing in the near darkness , I remember feeling this quick , hot fear , and in that instant , I could only imagine what it must be like to be trapped in that hell .
infer: On the dark corner , I remember feeling UNK in the dark corner , and that moment , I remember feeling UNK in the hell , and that was how it was . 
beam: On the dark corner , I remember feeling UNK in the dark corner , and that moment , I remember feeling the UNK of UNK , and that moment , I would remember being bathed in the UNK . That was what it was . 

post: Chỉ có 1 lối ra : cầu thang mà từ đó tôi đi vào .
response: I had only one way out : the stairs from where I &apos;d come in .
infer: There is only one basic path : an staircase I go . 
beam: There is only one basic path : an staircase I go . 

post: Không có cửa hậu .
response: There were no back doors .
infer: There were no UNK . 
beam: There were no UNK . 

post: Chẳng có cửa sổ đủ lớn mà chui lọt .
response: There were no windows large enough to climb through .
infer: There &apos;s no big UNK that came out of it . 
beam: There was no enough UNK UNK . 

post: Những người này không có lối thoát nào , khi ta đề cập về chủ đề khó khăn như thế , cần nhớ rằng nô lệ , bao gồm nô lệ của nạn mua bán tình dục , cũng xảy ra tại nơi chúng ta đang sống .
response: These people have no escape at all , and as we take in such a difficult subject , it &apos;s important to note that slavery , including sex trafficking , occurs in our own backyard as well .
infer: These people have no way , when we talk about topic of UNK , to remember UNK , to UNK the income of erotic trade , and also we are living . 
beam: These people don &apos;t have any way , when we talk about topic of UNK , to remember UNK , including slaves in sexual trade , and happening where we live . 

post: Hàng chục ngàn người bị bắt làm nô lệ trong nông nghiệp , trong nhà hàng , đầy tớ khổ sai trong nhà , và danh sách còn dài .
response: Tens of hundreds of people are enslaved in agriculture , in restaurants , in domestic servitude , and the list can go on .
infer: Thousands of thousands of people are UNK in agricultural farmers , in restaurant , are UNK in their homes , and their list is long . 
beam: Thousands of thousands of people are UNK in agricultural farmers , in restaurant , are UNK in homes , and the list are long . 

post: Gần đây , tờ New York Times báo cáo rằng từ 100.000 đến 300.000 trẻ em Mỹ bị bán làm nô lệ tình dục mỗi năm .
response: Recently , the New York Times reported that between 100,000 and 300,000 American children are sold into sex slavery every year .
infer: More recently , from the New York Times reported that from 100,000 to UNK children sold to sell their own every year . 
beam: More recently , in the New York Times reported that from 100,000 to UNK children sold to sell their sex every year . 

post: Nó ở quanh ta . Ta chỉ không thấy thôi .
response: It &apos;s all around us . We just don &apos;t see it .
infer: It &apos;s all around us . We just show us . 
beam: It &apos;s all around us . We just show us . 

post: Công nghiệp dệt may cũng thường được nghĩ đến khi nghe nói về nhân công nô lệ .
response: The textile industry is another one we often think of when we hear about slave labor .
infer: UNK is often thinking of UNK as UNK . 
beam: UNK UNK usually thought about UNK . 

post: Tôi đã đến nhiều làng ở Ấn Độ , nơi nhiều gia đình bị làm nô lệ trong buôn bán lụa .
response: I visited villages in India where entire families were enslaved in the silk trade .
infer: So I &apos;ve traveled to more men in India , where many families are being UNK in the UNK . 
beam: So , I &apos;ve come to a lot of villages in India , where a lot of families have UNK in sales . 

post: Đây là chân dung gia đình .
response: This is a family portrait .
infer: This is the family portrait . 
beam: This is the family portrait . 

post: Đôi tay nhuộm đen là người cha , những bàn tay xanh và đỏ là con trai ông ấy .
response: The dyed black hands are the father , while the blue and red hands are his sons .
infer: UNK UNK are a father , green hands and red are his sons . 
beam: UNK UNK is a dad , the blue hands and red are his sons . 

post: Họ trộn thuốc nhuộm trong những thùng lớn , và nhúng lụa vào dung dịch đó ngập đến khuỷ tay , dù thuốc nhuộm rất độc .
response: They mix dye in these big barrels , and they submerge the silk into the liquid up to their elbows , but the dye is toxic .
infer: They take the UNK in big boxes , and UNK that UNK UNK UNK UNK , which is very poor . 
beam: They take the UNK in big boxes , and UNK that UNK UNK with UNK UNK , no UNK UNK . 

post: Người phiên dịch của tôi kể chuyện của họ .
response: My interpreter told me their stories .
infer: My translator told them their stories . 
beam: My translator tells them their stories . 

post: Họ nói , &quot; Chúng tôi không có tự do ,
response: &quot; We have no freedom , &quot; they said .
infer: They said , &quot; We don &apos;t have free . 
beam: They said , &quot; We don &apos;t have free . 

post: nhưng vẫn hi vọng ngày nào đó có thể rời khỏi căn nhà này và đi nơi khác nơi chúng tôi được trả công nhuộm vải . &quot;
response: &quot; We hope still , though , that we could leave this house someday and go someplace else where we actually get paid for our dyeing . &quot;
infer: But hopefully hopefully that someday can leave the house and go somewhere else where we &apos;re paid for a canvas . &quot; 
beam: I still hope that it &apos;s possible to get away from the house and go somewhere else , where we &apos;re paid for a UNK . &quot; 

post: Ước lượng rằng có hơn 4.000 trẻ em đang làm nô lệ ở hồ Volta , chiếc hồ nhân tạo lớn nhất thế giới .
response: It &apos;s estimated that more than 4,000 children are enslaved on Lake Volta , the largest man-made lake in the world .
infer: It &apos;s estimated that over 2,000 children are UNK in the UNK hour , the world &apos;s largest UNK . 
beam: It &apos;s estimated that over 2,000 children are UNK in the second UNK , the world &apos;s largest UNK sphere . 

post: Lần đầu đến đó , tôi đi xem qua 1 lượt .
response: When we first arrived , I went to have a quick look .
infer: I was there for the first time , and I went across a single ride . 
beam: And I was there for the first time . 

post: Tôi thấy cảnh giống như 1 gia đình đang đánh cá trên thuyền , 2 anh trai , vài đứa nhỏ hơn , có vẻ hợp lí nhỉ ?
response: I saw what seemed to be a family fishing on a boat , two older brothers , some younger kids , makes sense right ?
infer: I saw the same time a family fish on the boat , two boys , a couple of smaller ones , does it sound ? 
beam: I saw a scene like a family fish on the boat , two boys , a couple of smaller ones , a little smaller , a little smaller , a little smaller , actually ? 

post: Sai . Họ đều bị nô lệ .
response: Wrong . They were all enslaved .
infer: No . They were UNK . 
beam: No . They were UNK . 

post: Trẻ em bị đưa khỏi gia đình , buôn bán và mất tích , và bị bắt làm việc không ngừng nghỉ trên những con thuyền này ở hồ này , dù chúng không biết bơi .
response: Children are taken from their families and trafficked and vanished , and they &apos;re forced to work endless hours on these boats on the lake , even though they do not know how to swim .
infer: Children get UNK from families , UNK and UNK , and they &apos;re caught up to stop on these boats , even though they don &apos;t know how to swim . 
beam: Children get UNK , and UNK and UNK , and they get caught up on these boats , even though they don &apos;t know how to swim . 

post: Đứa trẻ này 8 tuổi .
response: This young child is eight years old .
infer: This is eight years old . 
beam: This is eight years old . 

post: Em run rẩy khi thuyền của chúng tôi đến gần , cứ sợ thuyền đè qua cái canoe bé xíu của em .
response: He was trembling when our boat approached , frightened it would run over his tiny canoe .
infer: You UNK when our boat got closer , just UNK on the UNK of her UNK . 
beam: You UNK when our boat got closer , just UNK on his UNK . 

post: Cậu bé khiếp đảm vì sợ rơi xuống nước .
response: He was petrified he would be knocked in the water .
infer: He was terrified because he was UNK falling into water . 
beam: He was terrified because of falling in the water . 

post: Những cành cây gãy tụ vào hồ Volta thường vướng vào lưới đánh cá , và những đứa trẻ vừa mệt lử vừa sợ hãi bị đẩy xuống nước để gỡ lưỡi câu .
response: The skeletal tree limbs submerged in Lake Volta often catch the fishing nets , and weary , frightened children are thrown into the water to untether the lines .
infer: The UNK UNK into the UNK and UNK in UNK , and the kids that just UNK and they were UNK and UNK and UNK that were UNK in the water to UNK the hook . 
beam: The UNK UNK into the UNK and UNK in the UNK , and the kids that have been UNK , and they &apos;re scared and they &apos;re UNK down towards the water . 

post: Nhiều em chết đuối .
response: Many of them drown .
infer: UNK UNK . 
beam: More UNK . 

post: Những gì cậu bé nhớ được , là em bị bắt làm việc ở hồ .
response: For as long as he can recall , he &apos;s been forced to work on the lake .
infer: What he remembers is that he &apos;s UNK at the lake . 
beam: What he remembers is that you &apos;re arrested at the watch . 

post: Quá sợ người chủ , em không dám chạy trốn , và vì bị đối xử tàn tệ từ nhỏ , em tiếp diễn điều đó xuống những nô lệ nhỏ hơn mà em quản lý .
response: Terrified of his master , he will not run away , and since he &apos;s been treated with cruelty all his life , he passes that down to the younger slaves that he manages .
infer: UNK fear , you don &apos;t wake up hiding , and because of the worse process , you &apos;re going to go on to the little UNK that are managed . 
beam: UNK fear , you don &apos;t wake up hiding , and because of the worse process , you &apos;re going to go on to the little UNK that are managed . 

post: Tôi gặp những bé trai này lúc 5 giờ sáng , khi chúng đang kéo những mẻ lưới cuối cùng , nhưng chúng đã làm việc từ 1 giờ sáng
response: I met these boys at five in the morning , when they were hauling in the last of their nets , but they had been working since 1 a.m.
infer: I met these guys at 5 in the morning , as they were pulling in the last UNK , but they were working from an hour . 
beam: I met these guys at 5 in the morning , as they were pulling in the last UNK , but they were working from an hour . 

post: trong đêm tối lạnh lẽo gió sương .
response: in the cold , windy night .
infer: night UNK , UNK . 
beam: At night , UNK . 

post: Cần lưu ý rằng những chiếc lưới này nặng gần 500kgs khi chúng đầy cá .
response: And it &apos;s important to note that these nets weigh more than a thousand pounds when they &apos;re full of fish .
infer: UNK meaning that these networks are so close to UNK as they &apos;re full of fish . 
beam: UNK meaning that these networks are so close to UNK as they &apos;re full of fish . 

post: Tôi muốn giới thiệu Kofi với bạn .
response: I want to introduce you to Kofi .
infer: I want to introduce you to join out to bananas with you . 
beam: I want to introduce you to bananas with you . 

post: Kofi được cứu từ 1 làng chài .
response: Kofi was rescued from a fishing village .
infer: He was in a village &apos;s UNK village . 
beam: He was saved from a village in UNK . 

post: Tôi gặp cậu bé ở khu cứu trợ mà tổ chức Giải phóng Nô lệ phục hồi các nạn nhân bị nô lệ .
response: I met him at a shelter where Free the Slaves rehabilitates victims of slavery .
infer: I met him in the UNK ward that UNK UNK with the slaves rate . 
beam: I met him in the UNK ward that UNK an issue of slaves . 

post: Nơi đây em đang tắm ở giếng , dội những gáo nước to lên đầu , và tin tuyệt vời là , khi bạn và tôi ngồi nói chuyện hôm nay , Kofi đã được đoàn tụ với gia đình , và hay hơn nữa , gia đình em được phát công cụ để kiếm sống và giữ đám trẻ an toàn .
response: Here he &apos;s seen taking a bath at the well , pouring big buckets of water over his head , and the wonderful news is , as you and I are sitting here talking today , Kofi has been reunited with his family , and what &apos;s even better , his family has been given tools to make a living and to keep their children safe .
infer: They &apos;re UNK in UNK , and UNK up with the water , and the great news is , when you talk , Pranitha was united with family , and yet , more , a family has been given tools to earn and to stay safe . 
beam: They &apos;re UNK in UNK , UNK to the UNK , and the great news is that , when you and I &apos;m sitting in today , kites &apos;s been UNK with families , or far more , their family has been given tools to earn and to remain safe

post: Kofi là hiện thân của khả năng
response: Kofi is the embodiment of possibility .
infer: Kofi is the embodiment of the ability . 
beam: Pettengill is the embodiment of the ability . 

post: Em sẽ trở thành người thế nào nếu có ai đó đứng lên và thay đổi cuộc đời em ?
response: Who will he become because someone took a stand and made a difference in his life ?
infer: Was you going to be somebody if somebody was standing up and changed her life ? 
beam: How would you become if someone stands up and changed her life ? 

post: Lái xe trên đường ở Ghana , cũng những đồng nghiệp trong tổ chức Giải phóng Nô lệ , 1 anh bạn thuộc những người theo chủ nghĩa bãi nô đi xe gắn máy bất ngờ tăng tốc lên ngang xe chúng tôi và gõ vào cửa kính .
response: Driving down a road in Ghana with partners of Free the Slaves , a fellow abolitionist on a moped suddenly sped up to our cruiser and tapped on the window .
infer: UNK on the road in Ghana , and the UNK of UNK UNK , a friend of UNK UNK UNK UNK UNK up our car and then type to the glass window . 
beam: UNK on the road in Ghana , as well as a UNK as a UNK UNK , which is a friend of UNK UNK who rode a UNK to rush off our car and type to glass . 

post: Anh ta bảo chúng tôi đi theo trên con đường lầy lội vào rừng ,
response: He told us to follow him down a dirt road into the jungle .
infer: He said , &quot; He said , &quot; He said , &quot; He said , &quot; He said , &quot; Well , we went on a UNK road in the woods . 
beam: He told us to go on a UNK road in the woods . 

post: Ở cuối đường , anh ta giục chúng tôi rời xe , và bảo lái xe đi ngay .
response: At the end of the road , he urged us out of the car , and told the driver to quickly leave .
infer: At the end of the road , he UNK us to leave , and he told him . 
beam: At the end of the road , he UNK us to leave , and then UNK drove off . 

post: Rồi chỉ vào dấu chân mờ mờ này và nói , &quot; Đây là lối đi , đây là lối đi . Đi đi . &quot;
response: Then he pointed toward this barely visible footpath , and said , &quot; This is the path , this is the path . Go . &quot;
infer: And just this UNK track and says , &quot; This is the aisle , this is the aisle . Go ahead . &quot; 
beam: And they just look at this UNK UNK and say , &quot; This is the aisle , this is the aisle . Go ahead . &quot; 

post: Đi theo lối đó , chúng tôi vạch những dây leo chắn lối , và sau khoảng 1 giờ đi bộ trong rừng , dấu vết đã chìm trong nước sau những trận mưa , nên tôi đội dụng cụ chụp hình lên đầu khi chúng tôi đi xuống dòng nước sâu đến ngực .
response: As we started down the path , we pushed aside the vines blocking the way , and after about an hour of walking in , found that the trail had become flooded by recent rains , so I hoisted the photo gear above my head as we descended into these waters up to my chest .
infer: And we put these UNK UNK , and we left the UNK of the forest , and we finally , about a hour walk in the forest , which has covered in water after the rains , so I &apos;m using MRI imaging to start when we walked down the
beam: And on that way , we UNK the UNK UNK , and we had about a hour walk in the forest , and after about a hour walk in the forest , and I &apos;m the UNK for imaging -- when we walked down the UNK of water to his

post: Sau 2 giờ cuốc bộ nữa , dấu vết quanh co bất ngờ kết thúc tại khu đất trống , và trước mắt chúng tôi là một vùng la liệt những cái hố rộng bằng cả sân bóng đá , chúng chứa đầy những nhân công nô lệ .
response: After another two hours of hiking , the winding trail abruptly ended at a clearing , and before us was a mass of holes that could fit into the size of a football field , and all of them were full of enslaved people laboring .
infer: And so after two UNK , UNK UNK UNK to the UNK UNK , the UNK UNK of UNK park in the empty , and before we were a mining of UNK UNK UNK , they were full of UNK UNK . 
beam: After two , two hours of UNK , the little UNK display end up in the empty , and before we were a mining of UNK UNK in football , they filled with slave employees . 

post: Nhiều phụ nữ địu con trên lưng trong khi đãi vàng , và lội qua dòng nước nhiễm độc thuỷ ngân .
response: Many women had children strapped to their backs while they were panning for gold , wading in water poisoned by mercury .
infer: Many women UNK on the back of the back while they &apos;re already in the UNK , and they spread through the UNK UNK . 
beam: Many of women UNK children on their back , and through the water UNK . 

post: Thuỷ ngân được dùng trong quá trình chiết xuất .
response: Mercury is used in the extraction process .
infer: The bank is used in the UNK . 
beam: The bank is used as UNK . 

post: Những người thợ mỏ này bị bắt làm nô lệ trong hầm mỏ ở 1 khu vực khác của Ghana .
response: These miners are enslaved in a mine shaft in another part of Ghana .
infer: These UNK have been UNK in the UNK in another area of Ghana . 
beam: These UNK have been UNK in the UNK in another area of Ghana . 

post: Khi ra khỏi hầm , người họ ướt sũng bởi mồ hôi của chính mình .
response: When they came out of the shaft , they were soaking wet from their own sweat .
infer: When they get out of the UNK , they &apos;re UNK by their own sweat . 
beam: When they get out of the UNK , they are UNK by their own sweat . 

post: Tôi vẫn nhớ khi nhìn vào đôi mắt đỏ quạch , mệt mỏi của họ vì nhiều người đã ở dưới lòng đất tới 72 giờ .
response: I remember looking into their tired , bloodshot eyes , for many of them had been underground for 72 hours .
infer: I remember looking at the red eyes , UNK their UNK , because many people were below the planet for 72 hours . 
beam: I remember looking at their UNK eyes , their UNK because several people were below for 72 hours . 

post: Những cái hầm sâu tới cả trăm mét , họ vác lên những chiếc túi đá nặng trĩu để chuyển chúng tới khu vực khác , nơi đá được nghiền ra để đãi lấy vàng .
response: The shafts are up to 300 feet deep , and they carry out heavy bags of stone that later will be transported to another area , where the stone will be pounded so that they can extract the gold .
infer: The UNK UNK , they &apos;re going to get up UNK UNK to move them to the other area , which is UNK UNK in order to collect gold . 
beam: The UNK UNK to a hundred meters , they &apos;re going to walk up the UNK UNK to move them into the other area , which is the UNK that UNK the gold . 

post: Nhìn qua , công trường đập đá có vẻ đầy những người khoẻ mạnh , nhưng khi nhìn lại gần , có những nhiều kém may mắn hơn làm việc trong tình trạng khắc nghiệt , có cả trẻ em .
response: At first glance , the pounding site seems full of powerful men , but when we look closer , we see some less fortunate working on the fringes , and children too .
infer: UNK , UNK , UNK were UNK good people , but when you look close to close , there are a few more luck that work with extreme UNK , children . 
beam: UNK , UNK , UNK were UNK good people , but when you look close to close , there &apos;s a lot of luck who work in tough situations , including children . 

post: Họ đều là nạn nhân của tổn thương , bệnh tật và bạo lực .
response: All of them are victim to injury , illness and violence .
infer: They are all victims of vulnerability , disease and violence . 
beam: They were victims of vulnerability , disease and violence . 

post: Thực tế , nhiều khả năng người cơ bắp này cuối cùng sẽ giống người này , bị bệnh lao hành hạ và nhiễm độc thuỷ ngân trong vài năm nữa .
response: In fact , it &apos;s very likely that this muscular person will end up like this one here , racked with tuberculosis and mercury poisoning in just a few years .
infer: In fact , this muscle UNK of this muscle will eventually be like this one , the UNK of action and UNK in the next few years . 
beam: In fact , this muscle possibility of this muscle will eventually be like this person , dominated by hand UNK and UNK over a few years . 

post: Đây là Manuru . Khi cha mất , anh ta được người chú đưa đến khu mỏ làm việc cùng .
response: This is Manuru . When his father died , his uncle trafficked him to work with him in the mines .
infer: This is UNK . When he died , he got a UNK to work in the UNK . 
beam: This is UNK . When he died , he got a UNK from his work . 

post: Khi người chú mất , Manuru kế thừa món nợ của chú , và bị buộc làm nô lệ trong khu mỏ này lâu hơn nữa .
response: When his uncle died , Manuru inherited his uncle &apos;s debt , which further forced him into being enslaved in the mines .
infer: When the UNK came along , he offered his UNK and was forced to be UNK in the park even further . 
beam: When the man died , the UNK gave up the UNK , and was forced to make a UNK in the mine even further . 

post: Khi tôi gặp , anh ta đã làm việc 14 năm ở khu mỏ , và vết thương ở chân mà bạn thấy đây là từ 1 tai nạn ở mỏ , một chân bị thương nặng đến nỗi bác sĩ nói phải cưa đi .
response: When I met him , he had been working in the mines for 14 years , and the leg injury that you see here is actually from a mining accident , one so severe doctors say his leg should be amputated .
infer: When I met , he was working for 14 years in the mines , and the wound in the legs &apos;s feet you see from the accident in the mines , a foot heavy UNK that the UNK would have to see it . 
beam: When I met , he was working for 14 years in the mines , and the wound in the legs &apos;s feet that you see is from a UNK accident , a leg leg that the UNK would have to see . 

post: Trên hết , Manuru bị bệnh lao , nhưng vẫn bị bắt làm việc ngày qua ngày tại hầm mỏ đó .
response: On top of that , Manuru has tuberculosis , yet he &apos;s still forced to work day in and day out in that mine shaft .
infer: At all , UNK gets sick , but it &apos;s being caught on the day of the UNK . 
beam: On top of all , UNK gets sick , but it &apos;s been UNK during the day of the living . 

post: Dù vậy , anh ta vẫn mơ ước được tự do được đi học với sự giúp đỡ của những nhà hoạt động địa phương như tổ chức Giải phóng Nô lệ , và quyết tâm như thế này , hiện lên trên khuôn mặt của những người lạ thường , khiến tôi ngập tràn sự nể phục .
response: Even still , he has a dream that he will become free and become educated with the help of local activists like Free the Slaves , and it &apos;s this sort of determination , in the face of unimaginable odds , that fills me with complete awe .
infer: And yet , he still imagined being free to the help of local activists as the UNK UNK Act , and determined this way , UNK , on the faces of strangers , making me a bunch of UNK . 
beam: And yet , he still wanted to be taught to learn with the help of local activists as the UNK UNK Act , and determined this way , going on the faces of extraordinary strangers , UNK me with UNK . 

post: Tôi muốn đưa nô lệ ra ánh sáng .
response: I want to shine a light on slavery .
infer: I want to bring a UNK out of the light . 
beam: I want to bring UNK out . 

post: Khi làm việc trong lãnh vực này , tôi mang theo rất nhiều nến , với sự giúp đỡ của người phiên dịch , tôi truyền đạt với những người mà mình chụp hình rằng tôi muốn soi sáng câu chuyện và hoàn cảnh của họ , rồi khi họ và tôi được an toàn tôi chụp những tấm hình này .
response: When I was working in the field , I brought lots of candles with me , and with the help of my interpreter , I imparted to the people I was photographing that I wanted to illuminate their stories and their plight , so when it was safe for them , and safe for me , I made these images .
infer: And as I was working in this field , I brought a lot of UNK , with my help , with the UNK of the brain Foundation , I was UNK with people I wanted to share their stories and their context , and when they were , and I
beam: And as I was working in this field , I brought a lot of UNK , with my help , with my UNK , that I wanted to share their stories and their context , and when they left and I was safe I took these pictures . 

post: Họ biết hình của họ sẽ được xem bởi những người ở ngoài kia , như bạn
response: They knew their image would be seen by you out in the world .
infer: They know they &apos;re going to see because the people are out there , like you . 
beam: They know they &apos;re going to see because those guys are out there , like you . 

post: Tôi muốn họ biết rằng chúng ta sẽ làm chứng cho họ , và ta sẽ làm bất cứ gì có thể để giúp họ thay đổi cuộc đời .
response: I wanted them to know that we will be bearing witness to them , and that we will do whatever we can to help make a difference in their lives .
infer: I want them to know that we &apos;re going to do something to see them , and we will do anything that will help them change their lives . 
beam: I want them to know that we &apos;re going to work for them , and we will do anything possible to help them change their lives . 

post: Tôi thực sự tin , nếu ta coi người khác như những người đồng loại , thì sẽ rất khó để khoan hồng những tội ác như nạn nô lệ .
response: I truly believe , if we can see one another as fellow human beings , then it becomes very difficult to tolerate atrocities like slavery .
infer: I truly believe , if we look at people as UNK , it would be very difficult to hold evil crimes as UNK . 
beam: I truly believe , if you think of people as UNK , it would be very difficult to add crime like UNK . 

post: Những tấm hình không phải là về bản thân vấnđề . Chúng là về con người , người thật , như bạn và tôi , tất cả đều xứng đáng hưởng quyền bằng nhau , danh dự và tôn trọng như nhau trong đời .
response: These images are not of issues . They are of people , real people , like you and me , all deserving of the same rights , dignity and respect in their lives .
infer: UNK don &apos;t have to be about UNK . They are about people , who are , you know , all right now , all equally UNK , and UNK and respect in my life . 
beam: UNK don &apos;t have to be about UNK . They are about people , who are , like you and me , both are all equally UNK and UNK and respect in their lives . 

post: Không có ngày nào mà tôi không nghĩ về những người tuyệt vời bị vùi dập này . Tôi có vinh dự to lớn được gặp gỡ họ .
response: There is not a day that goes by that I don &apos;t think of these many beautiful , mistreated people I &apos;ve had the tremendous honor of meeting .
infer: No day I didn &apos;t think about the great people , and I have the great honor to see them . 
beam: Now , there was no day I didn &apos;t think about these great robots , I have the great honor to see them . 

post: Tôi hi vọng những tấm hình sẽ đánh thức một nguồn sức mạnh trong người xem , những người như bạn , và hi vọng sức mạnh đó sẽ châm ngọn lửa , ngọn lửa đó sẽ chiếu rọi vào nạn nô lệ , vì không có ánh sáng đó , con quái vật của ngục tù sẽ có thể tiếp tục sống trong bóng tối .
response: I hope that these images awaken a force in those who view them , people like you , and I hope that force will ignite a fire , and that fire will shine a light on slavery , for without that light , the beast of bondage can continue to live in the shadows .
infer: I would hope that the images will be going to be UNK up a human power for people such as you , and expect the power to UNK the UNK , that fire will then UNK in the UNK with the slave , because there &apos;s no such light ,
beam: I would hope that the images will be going to form the form of power in the viewer , people like you , and hopefully the power is going to UNK it in the UNK with the slave , because there &apos;s no light , the UNK UNK will continue

post: Cảm ơn rất nhiều .
response: Thank you very much .
infer: Thank you very much . 
beam: Thank you very much . 

